97 STAT. 1278

Ante, p. 1269.

International
Lending Super-
vision Act of
1983.

12 USC 3901
note.

12 USC 3901.

12 USC 3902.

12 USC 1813.

12 USC 611-631.

12 USC
601-604a.

12 USC 1813.

PUBLIC LAW 98-181—NOV. 30, 1983

consultations among finance ministers and the managing
director of the Fund on the conditions for improving the
international monetary system; and
“(7) establishing collection, review, comment, and reporting
ee within the Fund as provided in section 42 of this
ct.”.

TITLE IX—INTERNATIONAL LENDING SUPERVISION

SHORT TITLE

Sec. 901. This title may be cited as the “International Lending
Supervision Act of 1983”.

DECLARATION OF POLICY

Sec. 902. (aX1) It is the policy of the Congress to assure that the
economic health and stability of the United States and the other
nations of the world shall not be adversely affected or threatened in
the future by imprudent lending practices or inadequate
supervision.

(2) This shall be achieved by strengthening the bank regulatory
framework to encourage prudent private decisionmaking and by
enhancing international coordination among bank regulatory
authorities.

(b) The Federal banking agencies shall consult with the banking
supervisory authorities of other countries to reach understandings
aimed at achieving the adoption of effective and consistent supervi-
sory policies and practices with respect to international lending.

DEFINITIONS

Sec. 903. For purposes of this title—

(1) the term “appropriate Federal banking yori dl has the
same meaning given such term in section 3(q) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act, except that for purposes of this title such
term means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System for—

Re aoe holding companies and any nonbank subsidiary
thereof;

(B) Edge Act corporations organized under section 25(a) of
the Federal Reserve Act; and

(C) Agreement = operating under section 25 of
the Federal Reserve Act; and

(2) the term ‘ ing institution” means—

(AXi) an insured bank as defined in section 3(h) of the
Federal “Late Insurance Act or any subsidiary of an
insured :

(ii) an Edge Act corporation organized under section 25(a)
of the Federal Reserve Act; and

Giii) an ment Corporation operating under section
25 of the Federal Reserve Act; and

(B) to the extent determined by the appropriate Federal
banking agency, any agency or branch of a foreign bank,
and any commercial lending company owned or controlled
by one or more foreign or companies that control a
foreign bank as those terms are defined in the Interna-
PUBLIC LAW 98-181—NOV. 30, 1983

tional Banking Act of 1978. The term “banking institution”
shall not include a foreign bank.

STRENGTHENED SUPERVISION OF INTERNATIONAL LENDING

Sec. 904. (a) Each appropriate Federal banking agency shall evalu-
ate banking institution foreign country exposure and transfer risk
for use in banking institution examination and supervision.

(b) Each such agency shall establish examination and supervisory
procedures to assure that factors such as foreign country exposure
and transfer risk are taken into account in evaluating the adequacy
of the capital of banking institutions.

RESERVES

Sec. 905. (aX1) Each appropriate Federal banking agency shall
require a banking institution to establish and maintain a special
reserve whenever, in the judgment of such appropriate Federal
banking agency—

(A) the quality of such banking institution’s assets has been
impaired by a protracted inability of public or private borrowers
in a foreign country to make payments on their external indebt-
edness as indicated by such factors, among others, as—
(i) a failure by such public or private borrowers to make
full interest payments on external indebtedness;
(ii) a failure to comply with the terms of any restructured
indebtedness; or
(iii) a failure by the foreign country to comply with any
International Monetary Fund or other suitable adjustment

program; or
(B) no definite prospects exist for the orderly restoration of
debt service.
(2) Such reserves shall be charged against current income and
shall not be considered as part of capital and surplus or allowances
for possible loan losses for regulatory, supervisory, or disclosure

) :

) The appropriate Federal banking agencies shall analyze the
results of foreign loan rescheduling negotiations, assess the loan loss
risk reflected in rescheduling agreements, and, using the powers set
forth in section 908 ( ing capital adequacy), ensure that the
capital and reserve positions of United States banks are adequate to
accommodate potential losses on their foreign loans.

(c) The appropriate Federal banking agencies shall promulgate

tions or orders necessary to implement this section within one
aa and twenty days after the date of the enactment of this
e.
ACCOUNTING FOR FEES ON INTERNATIONAL LOANS

Src. 906. (aX1) In order to avoid excessive debt service burdens on
debtor countries, no banking institution shall charge, in connection
with the restructuring of an international loan, any fee exceeding
the administrative cost of the restructuring unless it amortizes such
fee over the effective life of each such loan.

(2XA) Each appropriate Federal banking agency shall promulgate
such regulations as are necessary to further carry out the provisions
of this subsection.

97 STAT. 1279

12 USC 3101
note.

12 USC 3903.

12 USC 3904.

Post, p. 1280.

Regulations.

12 USC 3905.
97 STAT. 1280

Regulations.

12 USC 3906.

Regulations.

12 USC 3907.

Failure to main-
tain minimum
level.

12 USC 1818.
Directive.

PUBLIC LAW 98-181—NOV. 30, 1983

(B) The requirement of paragraph (1) shall take effect on the date
of the enactment of this section.

(bX1) Subject to subsection (a), the appropriate Federal banking
agencies shall promulgate regulations for accounting for agency,
commitment, management and other fees charged by a banking
institution in connection with an international loan.

(2) Such regulations shall establish the accounting treatment of
such fees for regulatory, supervisory, and disclosure purposes to
assure that the appropriate portion of such fees is accrued in income
over the effective life of each such loan.

(3) The appropriate Federal banking agencies shall promulgate
regulations or orders necessary to implement this subsection within
rey hundred and twenty days after the date of the enactment of this
title.

COLLECTION AND DISCLOSURE OF CERTAIN INTERNATIONAL LENDING
DATA

Sec. 907. (a) Each appropriate Federal banking agency shall
require, by regulation, each cele institution with foreign coun-
try exposure to submit, no fewer ‘ies four times each calendar year,
information regarding such exposure in a format prescribed by such
regulations.

(b) Each appropriate Federal banking agency shall require, by
regulation, err institutions to disclose to the public information
regarding material foreign country exposure in relation to assets
and to capital.

(c) The appropriate Federal banking agencies shall promulgate
regulations or orders necessary to implement this section within one
noes and twenty days after the date of the enactment of this

e.

CAPITAL ADEQUACY

Sec. 908. (aX1) Each appropriate Federal banking agency shall
cause banking institutions to achieve and maintain adequate capital
by establishing minimum levels of capital for such institu-
tions and by using such other methods as the appropriate Federal
banking agency deems ny ak ori

(2) Each appropriate Federal banking agency shall have the au-
thority to establish such minimum level of capital for a banking
institution as the appropriate Federal ency, in its discre-
tion, deems to be necessary or appropriate in light of the particular
circumstances of the banking institution.

(bX1) Failure of a banking institution to maintain capital at or
above its minimum level as established pursuant to subsection (a)
may be deemed by the appropriate Federal banking agency, in its
discretion, to constitute an unsafe and unsound practice within the
meaning of section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.

(2XA) In addition to, or in lieu of, any other action authorized by
law, including raph (1), the a propriate Federal banking
agency may issue a ive to ab g institution that fails to
maintain captial at or above its required level as established pursu-
ant to subsection (a).

(BXi) Such directive may require the banking institution to submit
and adhere to a plan acceptable to the appropriate Federal banking
PUBLIC LAW 98-181—NOV. 30, 1983

agency describing the means and kirging by which the banking
institution shall achieve its required capital level.

(ii) Any such directive issued pursuant to this paragraph, includ-
ing plans submitted pursuant thereto, shall be enforceable under
the provisions of section &8(i) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to
the same extent as an effective and outstanding order issued pursu-
ant to section 8(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act which has
OKA) ‘Bach Federal banking d

appropriate e ing agency may consider
such banking institution’s progress in adhering to any plan required
under this subsection whenever such banking institution, or an
affiliate thereof, or the holding company which controls such bank-
ing institution, seeks the requisite approval of such appropriate
Federal banking agency for any proposal which would divert earn-
ings, diminish capital, or otherwise impede such banking institu-
tion's ogress in achieving its minimum capital level.

(B) Such appropriate Federal banking agency may deny such
approval where it determines that such proposal would adversel

ect the ability of the banking institution to comply with su

plan.

(C) The Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System and the Secre of the Treasury shall encourage
governments, central banks, and regulatory authorities of other
major banking countries to work toward maintaining and, where
appropriate, strengthening the capital bases of banking institutions
involved in international lending.

FOREIGN LOAN EVALUATIONS

Sec. 909. (a1) In any case in which one or more banking institu-
tions extend credit, whether by loan, lease, guarantee, or otherwise,
which individually or in the aggregate exceeds $20,000,000, to
finance any project which has as a major objective the construction
or operation of any mining operation, any metal or mineral primary
p ing operation, any fabricating facility or operation, or any
metal- ing operations (semi and finished) located outside the
United States or its territories and possessions, a written economic
Seantelty evaluation of such foreign project shall be prepared and
approved in writing by a senior official of the banking institution,
or, if more than one banking institution is involved, the lead bank-
ing institution, prior to the extension of such credit.

(2) Such evaluation shall—

(A) take into account the pentis potential of the project, the
impact of the project on world markets, the inherent competi-
tive advantages and rg ET of the project over the entire
life of the project, and the likely effect of the project upon the
overall long-term economic development of the country in
which the project is located; and

(B) consider whether the extension of credit can reasonably be
expected to be repaid from revenues generated by such foreign
project without regard to any subsidy, as defined in inter-
national agreements, Y obapt by the government involved or
any instrumentality of any country.

(b) Such economic feasibility evaluations shall be reviewed by
representatives of the appropriate Federal banking ncies when-
ae sperminaban by such appropriate Federal ing agency is
conducted.

11-194 O - 65 -- 42 : QL 3

97 STAT. 1281

12 USC 1818.

12 USC 3908.

Review.
97 STAT. 1282

12 USC 1818.

Regulations or

orders.
12 USC 3909.

12 USC 87lc.

12 USC 1813.

Supplemental
powers or
authorities.

12 USC 1818.

Violations.

12 USC 1818.

12 USC 3910.

Ante, p. 1278.

Audit inclusions.

PUBLIC LAW 98-181—NOV. 30, 1983

(cX1) The authorities of the Federal banking agencies contained in
section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and in section 910 of
this Act, except those contained in section 910(d), shall be applicable
to this section.

(2) No private right of action or claim for relief may be predicated
upon this section.

GENERAL AUTHORITIES

Sec. 910. (aX1) The appropriate Federal banking agencies are
authorized to cri! pe and define the terms used in this title, and
each appropriate Federal banking agency shall prescribe rules or
regulations or issue orders as necessary to effectuate the purposes of
this title and to prevent evasions thereof.

(2) The appropriate Federal ing agency is authorized to apply
the provisions of this title to any iate of an insured bank, but
only to affiliates for which it is the appropriate Federal banking
agency, in order to promote uniform application of this title or to
prevent evasions thereof. ;

(3) For purposes of this section, the term “affiliate” shall have the
same meaning as in section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act, except
that the term “member bank” in such section shall be deemed to
refer to an “insured bank”, as such term is used in section 3(h) of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act.

(b) The appropriate Federal banking agencies shall establish uni-
form systems to implement the authorities provided under this title.

(cX1) The ers and authorities granted in this title shall be
supplemental to and shall not be deemed in any manner to derogate
from or restrict the authority of each appropriate Federal banking

mcy under section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any
other law including the authority to require additional capital or
reserves.

(2) Any such authority may be used by any appropriate Federal

ing agency to ensure compliance by a banking institution with
the provisions of this title and all rules, regulations, or orders issued
pursuant thereto.

(dX1) Any banking institution which violates, or any officer, direc-
tor, employee, agent, or other person participating in the conduct of
the affairs of such banking institution, who violates any provision of
this title, or any rule, regulation, or order, issued under this title,
shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more than $1,000 per day
for each day during which such violation continues.

(2) Such violations shall be deemed to be a violation of a final
order under section 8(iX2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and
the penalty shall be assessed and collected by the apres
Federal banking agency under the procedures established by, and
subject to the rights afforded to parties in, such section.

GAO AUDIT AUTHORITY

Sec. 911. (aX1) —— of the Comptroller General, the
Comptroller General s audit the appropriate Federal banking
agencies (as defined in section 903 of this title), but soy Heo RA out an
onsite examination of an open insured bank or holding
company only if the appropriate Federal banking agency has con-
sented in writing.

(2) An audit under this subsection may include a review or
evaluation of the international regulation, supervision, and exami-
PUBLIC LAW 98-181—NOV. 30, 1983

nation activities of the appropriate Federal banking agency, includ-
ing the coordination of such activities with similar activities of
regulatory authorities of a foreign government or international
organization.

(3) Audits of the Federal Reserve Board and Federal Reserve
banks may not include—

(A) transactions for, or with, a foreign central bank, govern-
ment of a foreign country, or nonprivate international financing
organization;

(B) deliberations, decisions, or actions on monetary policy
matters, including discount window operations, reserves of
member banks, securities credit, interest on deposits, or open
market operations;

(C) transactions made under the direction of the Federal Open
Market Committee; or

(D) a part of a discussion or communication among or between
members of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System and officers and employees of the Federal Reserve
System related to subparagraphs (A) through (C) of this

paragraph.

(bX1KXA) Except as provided in this subsection, an officer or
employee of the General Accounting Office m s not disclose infor-
mation identifying an open bank, an open bank holding company, or
a customer of an open or closed bank or bank holding company.

(B) The Comptroller General may disclose information related to
the affairs of a closed bank or cl bank holding company identify-

ing a customer of the closed bank or closed holding company
Cai if the Comptroller General believes the customer had a control-
ling influence in the management of the closed bank or closed bank
holding company or was related to or affiliated with a person or
group having a controlling influence.

(2) An officer or employee of the General Accounting Office may
discuss a customer, bank, or bank holding company with an official
of an appropriate Federal banking agency and may report an appar-
ent criminal violation to an appropriate law enforcement authority
of the United States Government or a State.

(3) This subsection does not authorize an officer or employee of an
appropriate Federal banking agency to withhold information from a
committee of the Congress authorized to have the information.

a To carry out this section, all records and property of or

used by an appropriate Federal banking agency, including samples
of reports of examinations of a bank or bank holding eooueny the
Comptroller General considers statistically meaningful and work-
papers and correspondence related to the reports shall be made
available to the Comptroller General, including such records and
property pertaining to the coordination of international regulation,
supervisor — examination activities of an appropriate Federal

*atB) The Co Camcaveline General shall give each appropriate Federal
agency a current list of officers and employees to whom,
with pro ek jon! identification, records and property may be made avail-
oor ag who may make notes or copies necessary to carry out an
audit.
(C) Each appropriate Federal banking agency shall give the Comp-
troller General suitable and lockable offices and furniture, tele-
phones, and access to copying facilities.

97 STAT. 1288

Federal Reserve
Board and

bank audits,
exclusions.

Information
disclosure.

Reporting
criminal
violations.

Information
withholding
from Congress.

Records and
property.
97 STAT. 1284 PUBLIC LAW 98-181—NOV. 30, 1983

(2) Except for the temporary removal of workpapers of the Comp-
troller General that do not identify a customer of an open or closed
bank or bank holding company, an open bank, or an open bank
holding company, all workpapers of the Comptroller General and
records and property of or used by an appropriate Federal banking
agency that the Comptroller General possesses during an audit,
shall remain in such agency. The Comptroller General shall prevent
unauthorized access to records or property.

EQUAL REPRESENTATION FOR THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE

CORPORATION
12 USC 3911. Sec. 912. As one of the three Federal bank latory and supervi-
sory agencies, and as the insurer of the United States Rents

involved in international lending, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation shall be given equal representation with the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency on the Committee on Banking Regula-
tions and Supervisory Practices of the Group of Ten Countries and

Switzerland.
REPORTS
Transmittal to Sec. 913. Not later than six months after the date of the enact-
to eo tois ment of this title, the Secretary of the Treasury or the appropriate

Federal banking agencies as specified below, shall transmit a report
to the Congress regarding thavite to improve the international
lending operations of banking institutions. Such report shall—
) review the laws, regulations, and examination and
supervisory procedures and practices, M Sdepaiyapin international
ing in each of the Group of Ten Nations and Switzerland
with particular attention to such matters bearing on capital
requirements, lendi limits, reserves, disclosure, examiner
access, and lender of last resort resources, such report to be
oe pale by the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the
eral Reserve System; : :
(2) outline p made in reaching the goal specified in
Ante, p. 1280. section 908(c), such report to be prepared by the Secretary of the
Treas and the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the
Federal rve System; and
(3) indicate actions taken to implement this title by the
pst ioe Federal banking agencies, including a description
of the actions taken in carrying out the objectives of the title
and any actions taken by any appropriate Federal banking
agency that are inconsistent with the uniform implementation
by the appropriate Federal banking agencies of their respective
authorities under this title, and any recommendations for
amendments to this or other legislation, such report to be
prepared by the appropriate Federal banking agencies.

TITLE X—MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS

INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK

Sec. 1001. The Inter-American Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C.

283 et oe is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:

22 USC 2832-3. “Sec. 31. (a1) The United States Governor of the Bank is author-
ized to vote for resolutions—
