PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986 100 STAT. 3207-18

United States Code, or $2,000,000 if the defendant is an individual or
$10,000,000 if the defendant is other than an individual, or both.
Any sentence imposing a term of imprisonment under this para-
graph shall, in the absence of such a prior conviction, impose a term
of supervised release of at least 3 years in addition to such term of
imprisonment and shall, if there was such a prior conviction, im
a term of supervised release of at least 6 years in addition to such
term of imprisonment. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, and
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the court shall not place
on probation or nd the sentence of any person sentenced under
the provisions of this paragraph which provide for a mandatory
term of imprisonment if death or serious bodily injury results, nor
shall a person so sentenced be eligible for parole during the term of
such a sentence.”.
(b) Section 1010(b\4) of the Controlied Substances Import and Anite, p. 3207-15.
Export Act (21 U.S.C. 960(b\4)), as redesignated, is amended—
(1) by striking out “, except as provided in persexerh (4)”;
(2) by striking out “fined not more than $50,000” and insert-
ing in lieu thereof “fined not to exceed the greater of that
authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18, United
States Code, or $250,000 if the defendant is an individual or
$1,000,000 if the defendant is other than an individual”; and
(3) by inserting “except in the case of 100 or more marihuana
plants regardless of weight,” after ‘““marihuana,”’.

Subtitle H—Money Laundering Control Act of 1986 Mone
Laundering
SEC, 1351. SHORT TITLE. Control Act of

1986.
pom subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Money Laundering Control Act 18 USC 981 note.
0 ‘

SEC. 1352. NEW OFFENSE FOR LAUNDERING OF MONETARY
INSTRUMENTS.

(a) Chapter 95 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end thereof the following:

“§ 1956. Laundering of monetary instruments 18 USC 1956.

“(a)(1) Whoever, knowing that the property involved in a financial
transaction represents the proceeds of some form of unlawful activ-
ity, conducts or attempts to conduct such a financial transaction
which in fact involves the proceeds of specified unlawful activity—

“(A) with the intent to promote the carrying on of specified
unlawful activity; or

“(B) knowing that the transaction is designed in whole or in
part—

“(i) to conceal or disguise the nature, the location, the
source, the ownership, or the control of the proceeds of
specified unlawful activity; or

“(ii) to avoid a transaction reporting requirement under
State or Federal law,

shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than $500,000 or twice the
value of the property involved in the transaction, whichever is
greater, or imprisonment for not more than twenty years, or both.

“(2) Whoever transports or attempts to transport a monetary
instrument or funds from a place in the United States to or through
a place outside the United States or to a place in the United States
from or through a place outside the United States—
100 STAT. 3207-19 PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986

“(A) with the intent to promote the carrying on of specified
unlawful activity; or

“(B) knowing that the monetary instrument or funds involved
in the transportation represent the proceeds of some form of
unlawful activity and knowing that such transportation is de-
signed in whole or in part—

“(ij) to conceal or disguise the nature, the location, the
source, the ownership, or the control of the proceeds of
specified unlawful activity; or

“(ii) to avoid a transaction reporting requirement under
State or Federal law,

shall be sentenced to a fine of $500,000 or twice the value of the
monetary instrument or funds involved in the transportation,
whichever is greater, or imprisonment for not more than twenty
years, or both.

“(b) Whoever conducts or attempts to conduct a transaction de-
scribed in subsection (aX1), or a transportation described in sub-
section (a)(2), is liable to the United States for a civil penalty of not
more than the greater of—

“(1) the value of the property, funds, or monetary instruments
involved in the transaction; or

“(2) $10,000.

“(c) As used in this section—

“(1) the term ‘knowing that the pro - involved in a finan-
cial transaction represents the ett of some form of unlaw-
ful activity’ means that the person knew the property involved
in the transaction represented proceeds from some form, though
not necessarily which form, of activity that constitutes a —,
under State or Federal law, regardless of whether or not suc
activity is specified in | ae ph (7);

“(2) the term ‘conducts’ includes initiating, concluding, or
participating in initiating, or concluding a transaction;

“(3) the term ‘transaction’ includes a purchase, sale, loan,
pledge, gift, transfer, delivery, or other disposition, and with
respect to a financial institution includes a deposit, withdrawal,
transfer between accounts, exchange of currency, loan, exten-
sion of credit, purchase or sale of any stock, bond, certificate of
deposit, or other monetary instrument, or any other payment,
transfer, or delivery by, through, or to a financial institution, by
whatever means effected;

“(4) the term ‘financial transaction’ means a transaction
involving the movement of funds by wire or other means or
involving one or more monetary instruments, which in any way
or degree affects interstate or foreign commerce, or a trans-
action involving the use of a financial institution which is
engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign
commerce in any way or degree;

“(5) the term ‘monetary instruments’ means coin or currency
of the United States or of any other country, travelers’ checks,
personal checks, bank checks, money orders, investment securi-
ties in bearer form or otherwise in such form that title thereto
passes upon delivery, and negotiable instruments in bearer
form or otherwise in such form that title thereto passes upon
delivery;

“(6) the term ‘financial institution’ has the definition given
that term in section 5312(a\(2) of title 31, United States Code,
and the regulations promulgated thereunder;
PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986 100 STAT. 3207-20

“(7) the term ‘specified unlawful activity’ means—
“(A) any act or activity constituting an offense listed in
section 1961(1) of this title except an act which is indictable 18 USC 1961.
under the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting
Act; 84 Stat. 1118.
‘(B) with respect to a financial transaction occurring in 91 USC 5811
whole or in part in the United States, an offense against a
foreign nation involving the manufacture, importation,
sale, or distribution of a controlled substance (as such term
is defined for the purposes of the Controlled Substances
Act); 21 USC 801 note.
“(C) any act or acts constituting a continuing criminal
enterprise, as that term is defined in section 408 of the
Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 848); or
“(D) an offense under section 152 (relating to concealment 18 USC 152.
of assets; false oaths and claims; bribery), section 215 (relat-
ing to commissions or gifts for procuring loans), any of
sections 500 through 503 (relating to certain counterfeiting
offenses), section 511 (relating to securities of States and
private entities), section 543 (relating to smuggling goods
into the United States), section 641 (relating to public
money, property, or records), section 656 (relating to theft,
embezzlement, or misapplication by bank officer or em-
ployee), section 666 (relating to theft or bribery concerning
programs receiving Federal funds), section 798, 794, or 798
(relating to espionage), section 875 (relating to interstate
communications), section 1201 (relating to kidnaping), sec-
tion 1203 (relating to hostage taking), section 1344 (oltlinn
to bank fraud), or section on otis or 2114 (relating to bank and
postal robbery and theft) of this title, section 38 of the Arms
Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778), section 2 (relating to
criminal penalties) of the Export Administration Act of
1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2401), section 203 (relating to criminal
sanctions) of the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702), or section 3 (relating to crimi-
ah Capp 3). of the Trading with the Enemy Act (50
“(d) Nothing in this section shall supersede any provision of
Federal, State, or other law imposing criminal penalties or affording
civil remedies in addition to those provided for in this section.
“(e) Violations of this section may be investigated by such compo-
nents of the Department of Justice as the Attorney General may
direct, and by such components of the Department of the Treasury
as the Secretary of the may direct, as appropriate. Such
authority of the Secretary of the Treasury shall be exercised in
accordance with an agreement which shall be entered into by the
of the Treasury and the Attorney General.
“(f) There is extraterritorial jurisdiction over the conduct prohib-
ited by this section if—
“(1) the conduct is by a United States citizen or, in the case of
a non-United States citizen, the conduct occurs in part in the
United States; and
“(2) the transaction or series of related transactions involves
funds or monetary instruments of a value exceeding $10,000.
100 STAT. 3207-21 PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986

18 USC 1957.

18 USC 3077.

31 USC 5311 et
seq.

18 USC 1956.

“§ 1957. Engaging in monetary transactions in property derived
from specified unlawful activity

“(a) Whoever, in any of the circumstances set forth in subsection
(d), knowingly engages or attempts to engage in a monetary trans-
action in criminally derived property of a value greater than $10,000
and is derived from specified unlawful activity, shall be punished as
provided in subsection (b).

“(b)\(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the punishment for an
offense under this section is a fine under title 18, United States
Code, or imprisonment for not more than ten years, or both.

“(2) The court may impose an alternate fine to that imposable
under paragraph (1) of not more than twice the amount of the
criminally derived property involved in the transaction.

“(c) In a prosecution for an offense under this section, the Govern-
ment is not required to prove the defendant knew that the offense
from which the criminally derived property was derived was speci-
fied unlawful activity.

“(d) The circumstances referred to in subsection (a) are—

“(1) that the offense under this section takes place in the
United States or in the special maritime and territorial jurisdic-
tion of the United States; or

“(2) that the offense under this section takes place outside the
United States and such special jurisdiction, but the defendant is
a United States person (as defined in section 3077 of this title,
but ee the class described in paragraph (2D) of such
section).

“(e) Violations of this section may be investigated by such compo-
nents of the Department of Justice as the Attorney General may
direct, and by such components of the Department of the Treasu
as the Secretary of the Treas may direct, as cope apriate. Suc
authority of the Secretary of the Treasury shall exercised in
accordance with an agreement which shall be entered into by the
Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General.

“(f) As used in this section—

(1) the term ‘monetary transaction’ means the deposit, with-
drawal, transfer, or exchange, in or affecting interstate or
foreign commerce, of funds or a monetary instrument (as de-
fined for the purposes of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31)
by, through, or to a financial institution (as defined in section
5312 of title 31);

“(2) the term ‘criminally derived property’ means any prop-
erty constituting, or derived from, atcnern obtained from a
criminal offense; and

(3) the term ‘specified unlawful activity’ has the meaning
given that term in section 1956 of this title.”’.

(b) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 95 of title 18 is
amended by adding at the end the following new items:

“1956. Laundering of monetary instruments.
“1957. Engaging ing in monetary transactions in property derived from specified unlaw-
activity.”.

SEC. 1353. AMENDMENTS TO THE RIGHT TO FINANCIAL PRIVACY ACT.

(a) CLARIFICATION OF RIGHT OF FINANCIAL InstTITUTIONS To REPORT
SuspecTeD VIOLATIONS.—Section 1103(c) of the Right to Financial
Privacy Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3403(c)) is amended by adding at the
end thereof the following new sentences: “Such information may
PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986 100 STAT. 3207-22

include only the name or other identifying information concerning
any individual or account involved in and the nature of any sus-
pected illegal activity. Such information may be disclosed notwith-
standing any constitution, law, or regulation of any State or political
subdivision thereof to the contrary. Any financial institution, or
officer, employee, or agent thereof, making a disclosure of informa-
tion pursuant to this subsection, shall not be liable to the customer
under any law or regulation of the United States or any constitu-
tion, law, or regulation of any State or political subdivision thereof,
yrs — disclosure or for any failure to notify the customer of such
osure.”’.

(b) Section 1113(i) of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 (12
U.S.C. 3413(i)) is amended by inserting immediately before the
period at the end thereof a comma and the following: “except that a
court shall have authority to order a financial institution, on which
a grand jury subpoena for customer records has been served, not to
notify the customer of the existence of the subpoena or information
that been furnished to the grand jury, under the circumstances
and for the period pages: and pursuant to the procedures estab-
COREY: ae 1109 of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978

SEC. 1354. STRUCTURING TRANSACTIONS TO EVADE REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS PROHIBITED.

(a) In GeNERAL.—Subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United
States Code (relating to records and reports on monetary in-
struments transactions) is amended by adding at the end thereof the
following new section:

“§ 5324. Structuring transactions to evade reporting requirement 31 USC 5324.
prohibited

“No person shall for the porpeee of evading the reporting require-
ments of section 5313(a) with respect to such transaction— 31 USC 5313.
“(1) cause or attempt to cause a domestic financial institution
to fail to file a report required under section 5313(a);
“(2) cause or attempt to cause a domestic financial institution
to file a report required under section 5313(a) that contains a
material omission or misstatement of fact; or
“(3) structure or assist in structuring, or attempt to structure
or assist in structuring, any transaction with one or more
domestic financial institutions.”’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections for chapter 53 of
title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof
the following new item:

“5324. Structuring transactions to evade reporting requirement prohibited.”.
SEC. 1355. SEIZURE AND CIVIL FORFEITURE OF MONETARY _IN-
STRUMENTS AND RELATED PROVISIONS.

(a) Customs AuTHority To Conpuct SEARCHES AT BorDER.—Sec-
poe 5317(b) of title 31, United States Code, is amended to read as
ollows:
“(b) SEARCHES AT BorpDER.—For purposes of ensuring compliance
with the requirements of section 5316, a customs officer may stop 31 USC 5316.
and search, at the border and without a search warrant, any vehicle,
vessel, aircraft, or other conveyance, any —- or other con-
— and any person entering or departing from the United
tes.”’.
100 STAT. 3207-23 PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986

(b) Farture to Report Export or Import oF Monetary IN-
STRUMENT.—The first sentence of section 5317(c) of title 31, United
States Code (relating to seizure and forfeiture of monetary in-
struments in foreign commerce) is amended to read as follows: “If a
31 USC 5316. report required under section 5316 with respect to any monetary
instrument is not filed (or if filed, contains a material omission or
misstatement of fact), the instrument and any interest in property,
including a deposit in a financial institution, traceable to such
instrument may be seized and forfeited to the United States
Government.”.

SEC. 1356. COMPLIANCE AUTHORITY FOR SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
AND RELATED MATTERS.

(a) Summons Power.—Section 5318 of title 31, United States Code,
is amended—

(1) by inserting “(a) GENERAL Powers or SECRETARY.—”
before ‘The Secretary of the Treasury”;

(2) in ‘ph (1), by inserting “except as provided in
subsection (b\(2),” before “delegate”;

(3) by striking out “and” at the end of paragraph (2);

(4) by | inserting ijafter | paragraph (2) the following new

paragraphs:

“(3) examine any books, papers, records, or other data of
domestic financial institutions relevant to the recordkeeping or
reporting requirements of this subchapter;

‘(4) summon a financial institution, an officer or employee of
a financial institution (including a former officer or employee),
or any person having possession, custody, or care of the reports
and records required under this subchapter, to appear before
the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate at a time and
place named in the summons and to produce such books, papers,
records, or other data, and to give testimony, under oath, as
may be relevant or material to an investigation described in
subsection (b); and”;

(5) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (5); and

(6) by adding at the end the following new subsections:

“(b) LrmrratTions ON SuMMoONS PowER.—

“(1) Scope OF PowER.—The Secretary of the Treasury may
take any action described in paragraph (3) or (4) of subsection (a)
only in connection with investigations for the purpose of civil
enforcement of violations of this subchapter, section 21 of the

12 USC 1829b. Federal Deposit Insurance Act, section 411 of the National
12 USC 17304. Housing Act, or chapter 2 of Public Law 91-508 (12 U.S.C. 1951
et seq.) or any regulation under any such provision.

“(2) AUTHORITY TO ISSUE.—A summons may be issued under
subsection (a4) only by, or with the approval of, the Secretary
of the Treasury or a supervisory level delegate of the Secretary
of the Treasury.

“(c) ADMINISTRATIVE ASPECTS OF SUMMONS.—

“(1) PRODUCTION AT DESIGNATED SITE.—A summons issued
pursuant to this section may require that books, papers, records,
or other data stored or maintained at any place be produced at
any designated location in any State or in any territory or other
place walsleo to the jurisdiction of the United States not more
than 500 miles distant from any place where the financial
institution operates or conducts business in the United States.
PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986 100 STAT. 3207-24

“(2) FEES AND TRAVEL EXPENSES.—Persons summoned under
this section shall be paid the same fees and mileage for travel in
the United States that are paid witnesses in the courts of the
United States.

“(3) No LIABILITY FOR EXPENSES.—The United States shall not
be liable for any expense, other than an expense described in
paragraph (2), incurred in connection with the production of

ks, papers, records, or other data under this section.

“(d) Service or SumMMoNs.—Service of a summons issued under
this section may be by registered mail or in such other manner
calculated to give actual notice as the Secretary may prescribe by
regulation.

“(e) CONTUMACY OR REFUSAL.—

(1) REFERRAL TO ATTORNEY GENERAL.—In case of contumacy
by a person issued a summons under paragraph (3) or (4) of
subsection (a) or a refusal by such person to obey such sum-
mons, the Secretary of the Treasury shall refer the matter to
the Attorney General.

(2) JURISDICTION OF cCoURT.—The Attorney General may
invoke the aid of any court of the United States within the
jurisdiction of which—

“(A) the investigation which gave rise to the summons is
being or has been carried on;
‘(B) the person summoned is an inhabitant; or
; Bo the person summoned carries on business or may be
ound,
to compel compliance with the summons.

“(3) CouRT ORDER.—The court may issue an order requiring
the person summoned to appear before the Secretary or his
delegate to produce books, papers, records, and other data, to
give testimony as may be necessary to explain how such mate-
rial was compiled and maintained, and to pay the costs of the
proceeding.

“(4) FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.—Any failure to obey the
order of the court may be punished by the court as a contempt
thereof.

“(5) SERVICE OF PROCESS.—AI] process in any case under this
subsection may be served in any judicial district in which such
person may be found.”.

(b) AMENDMENT RELATING TO EXEMPTIONS GRANTED FOR MONE-
TARY TRANSACTION REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—Section 5318 of title
31, United States Code, is amended by adding after subsection (e) (as
added by subsection (a) of this section) the following new subsection:

“(f) WRITTEN AND SIGNED STATEMENT REQuIRED.—No person shall
qualify for an exemption under subsection (a5) unless the relevant
financial institution prepares and maintains a statement which—

“(1) describes in detail the reasons why such person is quali-
fied for such exemption; and

“(2) contains the signature of such person.”’.

(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—

(1) Sections 5321 and 5322 of title 31, United States Code, are
each amended by striking out “5318(2)” each place such term
appears and inserting in lieu thereof “5318(a)(2)”.

(2) The heading of section 5318 of title 31, United States Code,
is amended to read as follows:

Ante, p. 3207-23.
100 STAT. 3207-25 PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986

31 USC 5324.

“§ 5318. Compliance, exemptions, and summons authority”.

(d) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections for chapter 53 of
title 31, United States Code, is amended by striking out the item
relating to section 5318 and inserting in lieu thereof the following:

“5318. Compliance, exemptions, and summons authority.”’.
SEC. 1357. PENALTY PROVISIONS.

(a) Crvit Money PENALTY FoR STRUCTURED TRANSACTION VIOLA-
TION.—Section 5321(a) of title 31, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:

“(4) SrRUCTURED TRANSACTION VIOLATION.—

“(A) PENALTY AUTHORIZED.—The Secretary of the Treasury
ay impose a civil money eer on any person who willfully
violates any provision of section 5324.

“(B) MAXIMUM AMOUNT LIMITATION.—The amount of any civil
money penalty imposed under subparagraph (A) shall not
exceed the amount of the coins and currency (or such other
monetary instruments as the Secretary may prescribe) involved
in the transaction with respect to which such penalty is
imposed.

“(C) COORDINATION WITH FORFEITURE PROVISION.—The amount
of any civil money penalty imposed by the Secretary under
subparagraph (A) shall be reduced by the amount of any forfeit-
ure to the United States under section 5317(d) in connection
with the | transaction with respect to which such penalty is
im haa

(b) INCREASE IN AMOUNT OF PENALTY For FINANCIAL INsTITU-
TIONS.—Section 5321(a\1) of title 31, United States Code, is
amended—

(1) by striking out “$10,000” and inserting in lieu thereof ‘‘the
greater of the amount (not to exceed $100,000) involved in the
transaction or $25,000”; and

(2) by striking out “section 5315” each place such term ap-
pears and inserting in lieu thereof “sections 5314 and 5315”.

(c) SEPARATE CiviL MoNry PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF SECTION
5314.—Section 5321(a) of title 31, United States Code, is amended by
inserting after paragraph (4) (as added by subsection (a) of this
section) the following new paragraph:

“(5) FOREIGN FINANCIAL AGENCY TRANSACTION VIOLATION.—

“(A) PENALTY AUTHORIZED.—The Secretary of the Treasury
may impose a civil money penalty on any person who willfully
violates any provision of section 5314.

“(B) MAXIMUM AMOUNT LIMITATION.—The amount of any civil
money penalty imposed under subparagraph (A) shall not
exceed—

“(i) in the case of violation of such section involving a
transaction, the greater of—
(I) the amount (not to exceed $100,000) of the trans-
action; or
“(ID $25,000; and
(ii) in the case of violation of such section involving a
failure to report the existence of an account or any identify-
ing information required to be provided with respect to
such account, the greater of—
“(I) an amount (not to exceed $100,000) equal to the
balance in the account at the time of the violation; or
PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986 100 STAT. 3207-26

“(ID $25,000.”.

(d) SEPARATE Crvi, MONEY PENALTY FOR NEGLIGENT VIOLATION OF
SUBCHAPTER.—Section 5821(a) of title 31, United States Code, is
amended by inserting after paragraph (5) (as added by subsection (d)
of this section) the following new paragraph:

“(6) NEGLIGENCE.—The Secretary of the Treasury may impose a
civil money penalty of not more than $500 on any financial institu-
tion which negligently violates any provision of this subchapter or
any regulation prescribed under this subchapter.”.

(e) EXTENSION OF TIME LIMITATIONS FOR ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL
PENALTY.—Section 5321(b) of title 31, United States Code, is
amended to read as follows:

“(b) Time LimrTATIONS FOR ASSESSMENTS AND COMMENCEMENT OF
Crvi AcTIONs.—

“(1) ASSESSMENTS.—The Secretary of the Treasury may assess
a civil penalty under subsection (a) at any time before the end of
the 6-year period beginning on the date of the transaction with

t to which the penalty is assessed.

“(2) Crvm actions.—The Secretary may commence a civil
action to recover a civil penalty assessed under subsection (a) at
sas ~ before the end of the 2-year period beginning on the
ater of —

“(A) the date the penalty was assessed; or

“(B) the date any judgment becomes final in any criminal
action under section 5322 in connection with the same
transaction with respect to which the penalty is assessed.”’.

(f) CLARIFICATION OF RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CIVIL PENALTY AND
CRIMINAL PENALTY.—Section 5321 of title 31, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:

“(d) CRIMINAL PeNaLty Not Exc.usive or Civit PENALTY.—A civil
money penalty may be imposed under subsection (a) with respect to
any violation of this subchapter notwithstanding the fact that a
criminal penalty is im with respect to the same violation.”’.

(g) AMENDMENTS TO CRIMINAL PENALTY FOR CERTAIN OFFENSES.—
Section 5322(b) of title 31, United States Code, is amended—

(1) by striking out “illegal activity involving transactions of”’
and inserting in lieu thereof “any illegal activity involving”; and

(2) by striking out “5 years” and inserting in lieu thereof “10
years’.

(h) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 53821(c) of title 31, United
States Code, is amended by striking out “section 5317(b)” and insert-
ing in lieu thereof “subsection (c) or (d) of section 5317”. 31 USC 5316.

SEC. 1358. MONETARY TRANSACTION REPORTING AMENDMENTS.

(a) CLOSELY RELATED EVENTS.—Section 5316 of title 31, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new
subsection:

“(d) CUMULATION OF CLOSELY RELATED Events.—The Secretary of
the Treasury may prescribe regulations under this section defining
the term ‘at one time’ for purposes of subsection (a). Such regula-
tions may permit the cumulation of closely related events in order
that such events may collectively be considered to occur at one time
for the purposes of subsection (a).”.

(b) INCHOATE OFFENSE.—Section 5316(a)(1) of title 31, United States
Code, is amended—

(1) by striking out “or attempts to transport or have trans-
ported,”, and
100 STAT. 3207-27 PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986

(2) by inserting “, is about to transport,” after “transports”.

(c) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 5316(a\2)

of title 31, United States Code, is amended by striking out “$5,000”
and inserting in lieu thereof “$10,000”.

SEC. 1359. BANKING REGULATORY AGENCY SUPERVISION OF RECORD-
KEEPING SYSTEMS.

(a) INSURED BANKS.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 8 ot the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act (12 U.S.C. 1818) is amended by adding at the end thereof the
following new subsection:

“(s) COMPLIANCE WITH MONETARY TRANSACTION RECORDKEEPING
AND REPpoRT REQUIREMENTS.—

(1) COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES REQUIRED.—Each appropriate
Federal banking agency shall prescribe regulations requiring
insured banks to establish and maintain procedures reasonably
designed to assure and monitor the compliance of such banks
with the requirements of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31,

31 USC 5311 et United States Code.

seq. “(2) EXAMINATIONS OF BANK TO INCLUDE REVIEW OF COMPLI-
ANCE PROCEDURES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Each examination of an insured bank
by the appropriate Federal banking agency shall include a
review of the procedures required to be established and
maintained under paragraph (1).

“(B) EXAM REPORT REQUIREMENT.—The report of examina-
tion shall describe any problem with the procedures
maintained by the insured bank.

“(3) ORDER TO COMPLY WITH REQUIREMENTS.—If the appro-
Heats Federal banking agency determines that an insured

an —

“(A) has failed to establish and maintain the procedures
described in paragraph (1); or

“(B) has failed to correct any problem with the proce-
dures maintained by such bank which was previously re-
ported to the bank by such agency,

the agency shall issue an order in the manner prescribed in
subsection (b) or (c) requiring such bank to cease and desist from
its violation of this subsection or regulations prescribed under
this subsection.”’.

(2) CrvIL MONEY PENALTIES FOR FAILURE TO MAINTAIN COMPLI-
ANCE PROCEDURES.—Section &(i2\i) of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(i2)i)) is amended by striking out
“subsection (b) or (c)”’ and inserting in lieu thereof “subsection
(b), (c), or (s)”’.

(b) INstrTUTIONS REGULATED BY THE BANK BoarD.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 5(d) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act
of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 1464(d)) is amended by adding at the end
thereof the following new paragraph:

“(16) ComPLIANCE WitH MONETARY TRANSACTION RECORDKEEPING
AND REPORT REQUIREMENTS.—

Regulations. “(A) COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES REQUIRED.—The Board shall
prescribe regulations requiring associations to establish and
maintain procedures reasonably designed to assure and monitor
the compliance of such associations with the requirements of

31 USC 5811 et subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code.
seq.
PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986 100 STAT. 3207-28

“(B) EXAMINATIONS OF ASSOCIATIONS TO INCLUDE REVIEW OF
COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Each examination of an association by
the Board shall include a review of the procedures required
to be established and maintained under subparagraph (A).

“(ii) EXAM REPORT REQUIREMENT.—The report of examina-
tion shall describe any problem with the procedures main-
tained by the association.

“(C) ORDER TO COMPLY WITH REQUIREMENTS.—If the Board
determines that an association—

“(i) has failed to establish and maintain the procedures
described in subparagraph (A); or

“(ii) has failed to correct any problem with the procedures
maintained by such association which was previously re-

rted to the association by the Board,
the Board shall issue an order in the manner prescribed in
paragraph (2) or (3) requiring such association to cease and
desist from its violation of this paragraph or regulations pre-
scribed under this paragraph.”’.

(2) CrvIL MONEY PENALTIES FOR FAILURE TO MAINTAIN COMPLI-
ANCE PROCEDURES.—Section 5(d\8\B\i) of the Home Owners’
Loan Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 1464(d\8\BXi)) is amended by
striking out “paragraph (2) or (3)” and inserting in lieu thereof

Bi (2), (3), or (16)”.
(c) INsuRED Turirt INstITUTIONS.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 407 of the National Housing Act (12

U.S.C. 1730) is amended by adding at the end thereof the
following new subsection:

“(s) CoMPLIANCE WitH MoNETARY TRANSACTION RECORDKEEPING
AND REpoRT REQUIREMENTS.—

“(1) COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES REQUIRED.—The Corporation Regulations.

shall prescribe regulations requiring insured institutions to

establish and maintain procedures reasonably designed to

assure and monitor the compliance of such institutions with the

requirements of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United

States Code. 31 USC 5311 et
“(2) EXAMINATIONS OF INSTITUTIONS TO INCLUDE REVIEW OF  :e9-
COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Each examination of an insured
institution by the Corporation shall include a review of the
procedures required to be established and maintained

under ———- (1).

“(B) REPORT REQUIREMENT.—The report of examina-
tion shall describe any problem with the procedures main-
tained by the insured institution.

“(3) ORDER TO COMPLY WITH REQUIREMENTS.—If the Corpora-
tion determines that an insured institution—

“(A) has failed to establish and maintain the procedures

escribed in paragraph (1); or

“(B) has failed to correct any problem with the proce-
dures maintained by such institution which was previously
reported to the institution by the Corporation,

the Corporation shall issue an order in the manner prescribed
in subsection (e) or (f) requiring such institution to cease and
desist from its violation of this subsection or regulations pre-
scribed under this subsection.”
100 STAT. 3207-29 PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986

Regulations.

31 USC 5331 et
seq.

(2) CrviL MONEY PENALTIES FOR FAILURE TO MAINTAIN COMPLI-
ANCE PROCEDURES.—Section 407(k\3\A) of the National Housing
Act (12 U.S.C. 1730(kX8XA)) is amended by striking out “‘subsec-
tion (e) or (f) of this section shall forefit” and inserting in lieu
thereof “subsection (e), (f), or (s) of this section shall forfeit”.

(d) InsurRED Crepit UNIONS.—

(1) In GENERAL.—Section 206 of the Federal Credit Union Act
(12 U.S.C. 1786) is amended by adding at the end thereof the
following new subsection:

“(q) COMPLIANCE WitrH MoNETARY TRANSACTION RECORDKEEPING
AND Report REQUIREMENTS.—

“(1) COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES REQUIRED.—The Board shall pre-
scribe regulations requiring insured credit unions to establish
and maintain procedures reasonably designed to assure and
monitor the compliance of such credit unions with the require-
ments of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States

e.
“(2) EXAMINATIONS OF CREDIT UNIONS TO INCLUDE REVIEW OF
COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Each examination of an insured credit
union by the Board shall include a review of the procedures
spe to be established and maintained under paragraph
(1).

“(B) EXAM REPORT REQUIREMENT.—The report of examina-
tion shall describe any problem with the procedures main-
tained by the credit union.

“(3) ORDER TO COMPLY WITH REQUIREMENTS.—If the Board
determines that an insured credit union—

“(A) has failed to establish and maintain the procedures

ibed in paragraph (1); or

“(B) has failed to correct any problem with the proce-
dures maintained by such credit union which was pre-
viously reported to the credit union by the Board,

the Board shall issue an order in the manner prescribed in
subsection (e) or (f) iring such credit union to cease and
desist from its violation of this subsection or regulations pre-
scribed under this subsection.”’.

(2) CrviL MONEY PENALTIES FOR FAILURE TO MAINTAIN COMPLI-
ANCE PROCEDURES.—Section 206(kX2XA) of the Federal Credit
Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(k\2XA)) (as in effect on September 1,
1986) is amended by striking out “subsection (e) or (f)” and
inserting in lieu thereof “subsection (e), (f), or (q)”’.

SEC. 1360. CHANGE IN BANK CONTROL ACT AMENDMENTS.

(a) ADDITIONAL REviIEW TIME.—
(1) INITIAL EXTENSION AT DISCRETION OF AGENCY.—The first
sentence of section 7(jX1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
(12 U.S.C. 18171) is amended by striking out “or extending

up to another thirty days” and inserting in lieu thereof “or, in
the discretion of the agency, extending for an additional 30
days”.

(2) ADDITIONAL EXTENSIONS IN CASE OF INCOMPLETE OR INAC-
CURATE NOTICE OR TO CONTINUE INVESTIGATION.—The second
sentence of section 7(jX1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
(12 U.S.C. 1817(jX1)) is amended to read as follows: “The period
for disapproval under the preceding sentence may be extended
PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986 100 STAT. 3207-30

not ee 2 additional times for not more than 45 days each
time if—

“(A) the agency determines that any acquiring party has not
furnished all the information required under paragraph (6);

“(B) in the agency’s judgment, any material information
submitted is substantially inaccurate;

“(C) the agency has been unable to complete the investigation
of an acquiring party under paragraph (2B) because of any
delay caused by, or the inadequate cooperation of, such acquir-

me. By tho a eet d determines that additional time is needed to
investigate and determine that no acquiring party has a record
of — comply with the requirements of subchapter II of
chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code.”’. 31 USC 5331 et

(b) Duty To INVESTIGATE APPLICANTS FOR CHANGE IN CONTROL °%-
APpprROVAL.—Section 7(j2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
U.S.C. 1817(G)(2)) is amended—

(1) by striking out “(2)” and inserting in lieu thereof ‘(2)(A)
Notice To StaTE AGENCY.—”; and

creek adding at the end thereof the following new subpara-

a

“(B) ——_— oF PRINCIPALS RequireD.— Upon receiving any
notice under this subsection, the appropriate Federal banking
agency shall—

“(i) conduct an investigation of the competence, experience,
integrity, and financial ability of each person named in a notice
of a proposed acquisition as a person by whom or for whom such

acquisition is to be made; and
“(ii) make an independent determination of the accuracy and
completeness of any information described in paragraph (6)
with respect to such person.

“(C) Report.—The appropriate Federal banking agency shall pre-
pare a written report of any investigation under subparagraph (B)
which shall contain, at a minimum, a summary of the results of
such investigation. The agency shall retain such written report as a
record of the agency.’’.

(c) Pustic COMMENT ON CHANGE oF ContROL Nortices.—Section
7(jX2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(jX2)) is
amended by adding after subparagraph (C) (as added by subsection
(b) of this ection the following new subparagraph:

“(D) Pustic ComMENT.—Upon receiving notice of a proposed ac-
quisition, the appropriate Federal banking agency shall, within a
reasonable period of time—

“(i) publish the name of the insured bank proposed to be
acquired and the name of each person identified in such notice
as a person by whom or for whom such acquisition is to be
made; and

“(i) solicit public comment on such proposed acquisition,
gee from persons in the geographic area where the

proposed to be acquired is located, before final consider-

ation of such notice by the agency,
unless the agency determines in writing that such disclosure or
ee ee would seriously threaten the safety or soundness of such

(d) INVESTIGATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.—Section 7(j) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)) is amended—
100 STAT. 3207-31 PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986

12 USC 1818.

(1) by redesignating paragraphs (15) and (16) as paragraphs
(16) and (17), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (14) the following new

ph:
“(h5) INVESTIGATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.—

“(A) INVESTIGATIONS.—The appropriate Federal banking
agency may exercise any authority vested in such agency under
section 8(n) in the course of conducting any investigation under
paragraph (2B) or any other investigation which the agency, in
its discretion, determines is necessary to determine whether
ony person has filed inaccurate, incomplete, or misleading
information under this subsection or otherwise is violating, has
violated, or is about to violate any provision of this subsection or
any regulation prescribed under this subsection.

“(B) ENFORCEMENT.— Whenever it appears to the appropriate
Federal banking agency that any person is violating, has vio-
lated, or is about to violate any provision of this subsection or
any regulation prescribed under this subsection, the agency
may, in its discretion, apply to the appropriate district court of
rs United States or the United States court of any territory

or—

“(i) a temporary or permanent injunction or restraining
order enjoining such person from violating this subsection
or any regulation prescribed under this subsection; or

“(ii) such other equitable relief as may be necessary to
prevent any such violation (including divestiture).

“(C) JURISDICTION.—

“(i) The district courts of the United States and the
United States courts in any territory shall have the same
jurisdiction and power in connection with any exercise of
any authority by the appropriate Federal banking agency
under subparagraph (A) as such courts have under section

&(n).

(ii) The district courts of the United States and the
United States courts of any territory shall have jurisdiction
and power to issue any injunction or restraining order or
grant any equitable relief described in subparagraph (B).
When appropriate, any injunction, order, or other equitable
relief granted under this paragraph shall be granted with-
out requiring the posting of any bond.”.

SEC. 1361. CHANGE IN SAVINGS AND LOAN CONTROL ACT AMENDMENTS.
(a) ADDITIONAL REview TIME.—

(1) INITIAL EXTENSION AT DISCRETION OF AGENCY.—The first
sentence of section 407(qX1) of the National Housing Act (12
U.S.C. 1730(qX1)) is amended by striking out “or extending up to
another thirty days” and inserting in lieu thereof “or, in the

iscretion of the Corporation, extending for an additional 30

days”.
(2) ADDITIONAL EXTENSIONS IN CASE OF INCOMPLETE OR INAC-
CURATE NOTICE OR TO CONTINUE INVESTIGATION.—The second
sentence of section 407(q\(1) of the National Housing Act (12
U.S.C. 1730(qX1)) is amended to read as follows: “The period for
disapproval under the preceding sentence may be extended not
to exceed 2 additional times for not more than 45 days each time
if—
PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986 100 STAT. 3207-32

“(A) the Corporation determines that any acquiring party has
not furnished all the information required under ph (6);

“(B) in the Corporation’s judgment, any material information
submitted is substantially inaccurate;

“(C) the Corporation has been unable to complete the inves-
tigation of an acquiring party under paragraph (2)(B) because of
any delay caused by, or the inadequate cooperation of, such

party; or
aD) the Corporation determines that additional time is
needed to investigate and determine that no acquiring party has
a record of failing to comply with the requirements of sub-
chapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code.”. 31 USC 5331 et
(b) Duty To INVESTIGATE APPLICANTS FOR CHANGE IN CONTROL  5¢9.
APpPROVAL.—Section 407(q\2) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C.
1730(q\(2)) is amended—
(1) by striking out “(2)” and inserting in lieu thereof ‘“(2)A)
Notice To State AGENCY.—”; and
(2) by adding at the end thereof the following new sub-

phs:

“(B) INVESTIGATION OF PRINCIPALS REQUIRED.—Upon receiving any
notice under this subsection, the Corporation shall—

“(i) conduct an so of the competence, experience,
integrity, and financial ability of each person named in a notice
of a proposed ret sana as a person by whom or for whom such
acquisition is to be made; and

“(ii) make an independent determination of the accuracy and
completeness of any information described in paragraph (6)
with respect to such person.

“(C) Report.—The Corporation shall prepare a written report of
any investigation under subparagraph (B) which shall contain, at a
minimum, a summary of the results of such investigation. The
Corporation shall retain such written report as a record of the
Corporation.”’.

(c) Pustic CoMMENT ON CHANGE OF ContROL Norices.—Section
407(qX2) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1730(q\2)) is
amended by adding after subparagraph (C) (as added by subsection
(b) of this section) the following new subparagraph:

‘“(D) Pustic Comment.—Upon receiving notice of a proposed ac-
quisition, the Corporation shall, within a reasonable period of
time—

“(i) publish the name of the insured institution proposed to be
acquired and the name of each person identified in such notice
as a person by whom or for whom such acquisition is to be
made; and

“(ii) solicit public comment on such proposed acquisition,

i ly from persons in the geographic area where the
institution pro to be oe is located, before final
consideration of such notice by Corporation,

unless the Corporation determines in writing that such disclosure or
solicitation would seriously threaten the safety or soundness of such
institution.”

(d) INVESTIGATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.—Section 407(q) of the Na-
tional Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1730(q)) is amended—

(1) by redesignating paragraphs (16) and (17) as paragraphs
(17) and (18), respectively; and

(2) by inserting after paragraph (15) the following new
paragraph:
100 STAT. 3207-33 PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986

81 USC 53815
note.

Banks and
banking.

“(16) INVESTIGATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.—

“(A) InvesTIGATIONS.—The Corporation may exercise any
authority vested in the Corporation under paragraph (2) or (3) of
subsection (m) in the course of conducting any investigation
under paragraph (2XB) or any other investigation which the
Corporation, in its discretion, determines is necessary to deter-
mine whether any person has filed inaccurate, incomplete, or
misleading information under this subsection or otherwise is
violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision
of this subsection or any regulation prescribed under this
subsection.

“(B) ENFORCEMENT.— Whenever it appears to the Corporation
that any person is violating, has violated, or is about to violate
any provision of this subsection or any regulation prescribed
under this subsection, the agency may, in its discretion, apply to
the appropriate district court of the United States or the United
States court of any territory for—

“(i) a temporary or permanent injunction or restraining
order enjoining such person from violating this subsection
or any regulation prescribed under this subsection; or

“(ii) such other equitable relief as may be necessary to
phew any such violation (including divestiture).

“(C) JuRIsDICTION.—

“(j) The district courts of the United States and the
United States courts in any territory shall have the same
jurisdiction and power in connection with any exercise of
any authority by the Corporation under subparagraph (A)
as aye courts have under paragraph (2) or (3) of subsection

(m).

“ii) The district courts of the United States and the
United States courts of any territory shall have jurisdiction
and power to issue any injunction or restraining order or
grant any equitable relief described in subparagraph (B).
When appropriate, any injunction, order, or other equitable
relief dnder this paragraph shall be granted without requir-
ing the posting of any bond.”.

SEC. 1362. AMENDMENTS TO DEFINITIONS.

(a) Untrep Srates AGEeNcres INCLUDES THE PostaL SERVICE.—
Section 5312(aX2XU) of title 31, United States Code (defining finan-
cial institutions) (as redesignated by subsection (a)) is amended by
inserting before the semicolon at the end the following: “, including
the United States Postal Service”.

(b) Untrep States INCLUDES CERTAIN TERRITORIES AND POSSES-
sions.—Section 5312(a\X5) of title 31, United States Code, is amended
by inserting “the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana
Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Is-
lands,” after “Puerto Rico”.

SEC. 1363. INTERNATIONAL INFORMATION EXCHANGE SYSTEM; STUDY
OF FOREIGN BRANCHES OF DOMESTIC INSTITUTIONS.

(a) Discussions ON INTERNATIONAL INFORMATION EXCHANGE
System.—The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, shall initiate
discussions with the central banks or other appropriate govern-
mental authorities of other countries and propose that an informa-
tion exchange system be established to assist the efforts of each
PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986 100 STAT. 3207-34

participating country to eliminate the international flow of money
derived from illicit drug operations and other criminal activities.

(b) Report on Discussions Requirep.—Before the end of the 9-
month period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of the Treasury shall prepare and transmit a report to
the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House
of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs of the Senate on the results of discussions initiated
pursuant to subsection (a).

(c) Srupy or Money LAUNDERING THROUGH FOREIGN BRANCHES OF
Domestic FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS REQUIRED.—The Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Board
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, shall conduct a study
o —

(1) the extent to which foreign branches of domestic institu-
tions are used—

(A) to facilitate illicit transfers of coins, currency, and
other monetary instruments (as such term is defined in
section 5312(aX3) of title 31, United States Code) into and
out of the United States; and

(B) to evade reporting requirements with respect to any
transfer of coins, currency, and other monetary in-
struments (as so defined) into and out of the United States;

(2) the extent to which the law of the United States is
applicable to the activities of such foreign branches; and

(3) methods for obtaining the cooperation of the country in
which any such foreign branch is located for purposes of enforc-
ing the law of the United States with respect to transfers, and
reports on transfers, of such monetary instruments into and out
of the United States.

(d) Report ON Srupy or ForeiGN BRANCHES REQUIRED.—Before
the end of the 9-month period beginning on the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall prepare and
transmit a report to the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban
Affairs and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs and the Committee on the Judici of the Senate on the
results of the study conducted pursuant to subsection (c).

SEC. 1364. EFFECTIVE DATES.

(a) The amendment made by section 1354 shall apply with respect 31 USC 5824
to transactions for the payment, receipt, or transfer of United States note.
coins or currency or other monetary instruments completed after
the end of the 3-month period beginning on the date of the enact:
ment of this Act.

(b) The amendments made by sections 1355(b) and 1357(a) shall 31 USC 5317
apply with res to violations committed after the end of the 3- »-
month period inning on the date of the enactment of this Act.

(c) The amendments made by section 1357 (other than subsection 31 USC 5321
(a) of such section) shall apply with respect to violations committed note.
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

(d) Any regulation prescribed under the amendments made by 31 USC 5316
section 1358 shall apply with respect to transactions completed after ®°t-
the effective date of such regulation.

(e) The regulations required to be prescribed under the amend- 12 USC 1464
ments made by section 1359 shall take effect at the end of the 3- note.
month period Cacitining on the date of the enactment of this Act.
100 STAT. 3207-35 PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986

12 USC 1730
note.

31 USC 5331 et
seq.

18 USC 981.

21 USC 801 note.

(f) The amendments made by sections 1360 and 1361 shall apply
with respect to notices of proposed acquisitions filed after the date of
the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 1365. PREDICATE OFFENSES.

(a) Subsection (b) of section 1952 of title 18, United States Code, is
amended by striking out “or” before “(2)”, and by striking out the
period at the end thereof and inserting in lieu thereof the following:

‘, or (3) sig act which is indictable under subchapter II of chapter
rote neg 1, United States Code, or under section 1956 or 1957 of
itle.”’.

(b) Subsection (1) of section 1961 of title 18, United States Code, is
amended by inserting “section 1956 (relating to the laundering of
monetary instruments), section 1957 (relating to engaging in mone-
tary transactions in property derived from specified unlawful activ-
ity),” after “section 1955 (relating to the prohibition of illegal
gambling businesses),”’.

(c) Subsection (1) of section 2516 of title 18, United States Code, is
amended in paragraph (c) by inserting “section 1956 (laundering of
monetary instruments), section 1957 (relating to engaging in mone-
tary transactions in property derived from specified unlawful activ-
ity),” after “section 1955 (prohibition of relating to business
enterprises of gambling),”’.

SEC. 1366. FORFEITURE.

(a) Title 18 of the United States Code is amended by adding after
chapter 45 a new chapter 46 as follows:

“CHAPTER 46—FORFEITURE

“981. Civil Forfeiture.
“982. Criminal Forfeiture.

“§ 981. Civil forfeiture

“(aX1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the following property
is subject to forfeiture to the United States:

“(A) Any property, real or personal, which represents the
gross receipts a person obtains, directly or indirectly, as a result
of a violation ie section 1956 or 1957 of this title, or which is
traceable to such gross receipts.

“(B) Any property within the jurisdiction of the United
States, which represents the proceeds of an offense against a
foreign nation involving the manufacture, importation, sale, or
distribution of a controlled substance (as such term is defined
for the purposes of the Controlled Substances Act), within
whose jurisdiction such offense or activity would be punishable
by death or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and
which would be punishable by imprisonment for a term exceed-
ing one year if such act or activity had occurred within the
jurisdiction of the United States.

“(C) Any coin and currency (or other monetary instrument as
the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe) or any interest in
other property, including any deposit in a financial institution,
tra le to such coin or currency involved in a transaction or
attempted transaction in violation of section 5313(a) or 5324 of
title 31 may be seized and forfeited to the United States Govern-
ment. No property or interest in property shall be seized or
PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986 100 STAT. 3207-36

forfeited if the violation is by a domestic financial institution
examined by a Federal bank supervisory agency or a financial
institution regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion or a partner, director, officer, or employee thereof.

“(2) No property shall be forfeited under this section to the extent
of the interest of an owner or lienholder by reason of any act or
emission established by that owner or lienholder to have been
committed without the knowledge of that owner or lienholder.

“(b) Any property subject to forfeiture to the United States under
subsection (a)1A) or (aX1)(B) of this section may be seized by the
Attorney General or, with respect to property involved in a violation
of section 1956 or 1957 of this title investigated by the Secretary of
the Treasury, may be seized by the Secretary of the Treasury, and
any property subject to forfeiture under subsection (a\1\C) of this
section may be seized by the Secre of the Treasury, in each case
upon process issued pursuant to the Supplemental! Rules for certain
Adiairalty and Maritime Claims by any district court of the United
States having jurisdiction over the property, except that seizure
without such process may be made when—

“(1) the seizure is pursuant to a lawful arrest or search; or
“(2) the Attorney General or the Secretary of the Treasury, as
the case may be, has obtained a warrant for such seizure
pursuant to the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, in which 18 USC app.
event proceedings under subsection (d) of this section shall be
instituted promptly.

“(c) Property taken or detained under this aa shall not be
repleviable, but shall be deemed to be in the custody of the pooege
General or the Secretary of the Treasury, as the case ma
subject only to the orders and decrees of the court or the o ciel
having jurisdiction thereof. Whenever property is seized under this
subsection, the Attorney General or the Secretary of the Treasury,
as the case may be, may—

me) place the pr operty under seal;

“(2) remove the property to a 2 ace zp Somenates by him; or

“(3) require that the General Administration take
custody of the property and remove it, if practicable, to an
appropriate location for disposition in ‘accordance with law.

“(d) For purposes of this section, the provisions of the customs
laws relating to the seizure, summary and judicial forfeiture, con-
demnation of property for violation of ae customs laws, the disposi-
tion of such property or the gage rom the sale of this section,
the remission or mitigation of such forfeitures, and the compromise
of claims (19 U.S.C. 1602 et seq.), insofar as they are ———— and
not inconsistent with the provisions of this section, shall apply to
seizures and forfeitures incurred, or alleged to have been incurred,
under this section, except that such duties as are imposed upon the
customs officer or any other person with respect to the seizure and
forfeiture of property under the customs laws shall be performed
with respect to seizures and forfeitures of property under this
section by such officers, agents, or other persons as may be au-
thorized or designated for that purpose by the Attorney General or
the Secretary of the Treasury, as the case may be.

“(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of the law, except sec-
tion 3 of the Anti Drug Abuse Act of 1986, the Attorney General or
the Secretary of the Treasury, as the case may be, is authorized to
retain property forfeited pursuant to this section, or to transfer such
property on such terms and conditions as he may determine to—
100 STAT. 3207-37 PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986

State and local
governments.

21 USC 801 note.

“(1) any other Federal agency; or

“(2) any State or local law enforcement agency which partici-
pore directly in any of the acts which led to the seizure or

orfeiture of the property.
The reg General or the Secretary of the Treasury, as the case
may be, s ensure the equitable transfer pursuant to paragraph
(2) of any forfeited property to the appropriate State or local law
enforcement agency so as to reflect generally the contribution of any
such agency participating directly in any of the acts which led to the
seizure or forfeiture of such property. A decision by the Attorne
General or the Secretary of the Tysaniry pursuant to oni, h (2)
shall not be subject to review. The United States shall not iable
in any action arising out of the use of any property the custody of
which was transferred pursuant to this section to any non-Federal
agency. The Attorney General or the Secretary of the ury may
order the discontinuance of any forfeiture proceedings under this
section in favor of the institution of forfeiture cecubetings by State
or local authorities under an appropriate State or local statute.
After the filing of a complaint for forfeiture under this section, the
Attorney General may seek dismissal of the complaint in favor of
forfeiture proceedings under State or local law. Whenever forfeiture
proceedings are discontinued by the United States in favor of State
or local proceedings, the United States may transfer custody and
possession of the seized ag omg di to the appropriate State or local
official immediately upon the initiation of the proper actions by
such officials. Whenever forfeiture proceedings are discontinued b
the United States in favor of State or local Lege notice s.
be sent to all known interested parties advising them of the dis-
continuance or dismissal. The United States shall not be liable in
any action arising out of the seizure, detention, and transfer of
seized | pan to State or local officials.

“(f) right, title, and interest in prowerty described in subsec-
tion (a) of this section shall vest in the United States upon commis-
sion of the act giving rise to forfeiture under this section.

“(g) The filing of an indictment or information alleging a violation
of law which is also related to a forfeiture p ing under this
section shall, upon motion of the United States and for good cause
shown, stay the forfeiture proceeding.

“(h) In addition to the venue provided for in section 1395 of title 28
or any other provision of law, in the case of property of a defendant
charged with a violation that is the basis for forfeiture of the
property under this section, a proceeding for forfeiture under this
section may be brought in the judicial district in which the defend-
ant owning such property is found or in the judicial district in which
the criminal prosecution is brought. ;

“(i) In the case of property subject to forfeiture under subsection
(aX1XB), the following additional provisions shall, to the extent
provided by treaty, apply:

“(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, except sec-
tion 3 of the Anti Drug Abuse Act of 1986, whenever property is
civilly or criminally forfeited under the Controlled Substances
Act, the Attorney General may, with the concurrence of the
Secretary of State, equitably transfer any conveyance, currency,
and any other type of personal property which the Attorney
Genevel- may designate by i See for equitable transfer, or
any amounts realized by the United States from the sale of any
real or personal property forfeited under the Controlled
PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986 100 STAT. 3207-38

Substances Act to an appropriate foreign country to reflect
generally the contribution of any such nt country partici-
pating directly or indirectly in any acts which led to the seizure
or forfeiture of such property. Such property when forfeited
pursuant to subsection (aX1\B) of this section may also be
transferred to a foreign country pursuant to a treaty providi
for the transfer of forfeited property to such foreign country.
decision by the Attorney General poreeank to this pereareoe
shall not be subject to review. The foreign country shall, in the
event of a transfer of ia or proceeds of sale of property
under this subchapter, Rea expenses incurred by the United
States in the seizure, maintenance, inventory, storage, forfeit-
ure, and disposition of the property, and all transfer costs. The
payment of all such expenses, and the transfer of assets pursu-
ant to this paragraph, shall be upon such terms and conditions
as the Attorney General may, in his discretion, set. Transfers
may be made under this sabeaction during a fiscal year to a
country that is subject to paragraph (1XA) of section 481(h) of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (relating to restrictions on
United States assistance) only if there is a certification in effect
with respect to that country for that fiscal year under para-
graph (2) of that section.

“) The provisions of this section shall not be construed as
limiting or superseding any other authority of the United States
to provide assistance to a foreign country in obtaining property
related to a crime committed in the foreign country, including
property which is sought as evidence of a crime committed in
the foreign country.

“(3) A certified order or judgment of forfeiture by a court of
mar agri? eS of a foreign country concerning property
which is the subject of forfeiture under this section and was
determined by such court to be the type of property described in
subsection (a)1\B) of this section, and any certified recordings
or transcripts of testimony taken in a foreign judicial proceed-

ing concerning such order or judgment of forfeiture, shall be
edvoiseihle in evidence in a lh ie, so brought pursuant to this

section. Such certified order or judgment of forfeiture, when
admitted into evidence, shall constitute probable cause that the
property forfeited by such order or judgment of forfeiture is
subject to forfeiture under this section and creates a rebuttable
presumption of the forfeitability of such property under this
section.

“(4) A certified order or judgment of conviction by a court of
— jurisdiction of a foreign country concerning an un-

la activity which gives rise to forfeiture under this
section and any certified recordings or transcripts of testimony
taken in a foreign judicial p ing concerning such order or

judgment of conviction shall be admissible in evidence in a
p ing brought pursuant to this section. Such certified
order or judgment of conviction, when admitted into evidence,
creates a rebuttable presumption that the unlawful drug activ-
ity giving rise to forfeiture under this section has occurred.
“(5) The provisions of phs (3) and (4) of this subsection
shall not construed as li ang admissibility of any
evidence otherwise admissible, nor they limit the ability of
the United States to establish probable cause that property is
subject to forfeiture by any evidence otherwise admissible.

21 USC 801 note.

22 USC 2291.
100 STAT. 3207-39 PUBLIC LAW 99-570—OCT. 27, 1986

18 USC 982.
Real property.

18 USC 981 note.

Career

Criminals
Amendment Act
of 1986.

18 USC 921 note.

“(j) For purposes of this section—
“(1) the term ‘Attorney General’ means the Attorney General
or his delegate; and
“(2) the term ‘ of the Treasury’ means the Secretary
of the Treasury or his delegate.

“§ 982. Criminal forfeiture

“(a) The court, in imposing sentence on a person convicted of an
offense under section 1956 or 1957 of this title shall order that the
person forfeit to the United States any property, real or personal,
which represents the gross Sg the person obtained, directly or
indirectly, as a result of such offense, or which is traceable to such
gross receipts.

“(b) The provisions of subsections 413 (c) and (e) through (0) of the
ee ee ct Nb Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 (21
U.S.C. 853 (c) and (e)—(o)) shall apply to property subject to forfeit-
ure under this section, to any seizure or disposition thereof, and to
any administrative or judicial proceeding in relation thereto, if not
inconsistent with this section.”.

(b) The chapter analysis of part I of title 18, United States Code, is
amended by inserting after the item for chapter 45 the following:

“46. Forfeiture 981”.
SEC. 1367. SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.

If any  provanion of this subtitle or any amendment made by this
Act, or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is
held invalid, the provisions of every other part, and their applica-
tion, shall not be affected thereby.

Subtitle I—Armed Career Criminals

SEC. 1401, SHORT TITLE.

This subtitle may be cited as the “Career Criminals Amendment
Act of 1986”.

SEC. 1402. EXPANSION OF PREDICATE OFFENSES FOR ARMED CAREER
CRIMINAL PENALTIES.

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 924(e\1) of title 18, United States Code,
is amended by striking out “for robbery or burglary, or both,” and
inserting in lieu thereof “for a violent felony or a serious drug
offense, or both,”’.

(b) DerinitTions.—Section 924(eX2) of title 18, United States Code,
is amended by striking out subparagraph (A) and all that follows
through subparagraph (B) and inserting in lieu thereof the
following:

“(A) the term ‘serious drug offense’ means—

“(j) an offense under the Controlled Substances Act
(21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.), the Controlled Substances
Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 951 et seq.), or the
first section or section 3 of Public Law 96-350 (21 U.S.C.
955a et seq.), for which a maximum term of imprison-
ment of ten years or more is prescribed by law; or

“i) pte ob mane under State law, ate tes remand
turing, distributing, or possessing with intent to manu-
facture or distribute, a controlled substance (as defined
in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21
