88 Star. | PUBLIC LAW 93-495—OCT. 28, 1974

AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

Sec. 208. There are authorized to be appropriated without fiscal
year limitations such sums, not to exceed $2,000,000, as may be neces-
sary to carry out the provisions of this title.

TITLE ITI—FAIR CREDIT BILLING

§ 301. Short title
This title may be cited as the “Fair Credit Billing Act”.
§ 302. Declaration of purpose

The last sentence of section 102 of the Truth in Lending Act (15
U.S.C. 1601) is amended by striking out the period and inserting in
lieu thereof a comma and the following: “and to protect the consumer
against inaccurate and unfair credit billing and credit card practices.”

§ 303. Definitions of creditor and open end credit plan

The first sentence of section 103(f) of the Truth in Lending Act
(15 U.S.C. 1602(f)) is amended to read as follows: “The term ‘credi-
tor’ refers only to creditors who regularly extend, or arrange for the
extension of, credit which is payable by agreement in more than four
installments or for which the payment of a finance charge is or may
be required, whether in connection with loans, sales of property or
services, or otherwise. For the purposes of the requirements 1m
under Chapter 4 and sections 127(a) (6), 127(a) (7), 127(a) (8), 127
(b) (1), 127(b) (2), 127(b) (3), 127(b) (9), and 127(b) (11) of Chapter
2 of this Title, the term ‘creditor’ shall also include card issuers whether
or not the amount due is payable by agreement in more than four
installments or the peyrent of a finance charge is or may be required,
and the Board shall, by regulation, apply these requirements to such
card issuers, to the extent appropriate, even though the requirements
are by their terms applicable only to creditors offering open end
credit. plans.

§ 304. Disclosure of fair credit billing rights

(a) Section 127(a) of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1637
(a)) is amended by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph as
follows:

“/(8) A statement, in a form prescribed by regulations of the
Board of the protection provided by sections 161 and 170 to an
obligor and the creditor’s dempatieibiities under sections 162 and
170. With respect to each of two billing cycles per year, at semi-
annual intervals, the creditor shall transmit such statement to each
obligor to whom the creditor is required to transmit a statement.
ursuant to section 127(b) for such billing cycle.”
oo) Section 127(c) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 1637(c)) is amended to

“(c) In the case of any existing account under an open end con-
sumer credit plan having an outstanding balance of more than $1 at
or after the close of the creditor’s first full billing cycle under the plan
after the effective date of subsection (a) or any amendments thereto,
the items described in subsection (a), to the extent applicable and not
previously disclosed, shall be disclosed in a notice mailed or delivered
to the obligor not later than the time of mailing the next statement
required by subsection (b).”

§ 305. Disclosure of billing contact

Section 127 (' } of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1637(b) ) is
amended by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph as follows:

1511

12 USC 2408.

Fair Credit
Billing Act.

15 USC 1601
note.

Post, p. 1512,
Infra.
15 USC 1637.

Post, pp, 1512,
1515,
512 PUBLIC LAW 93-495—OCT. 28, 1974 [88 Svat.

“(11) The address to be used by the creditor for the purpose
of receiving billing inquiries from the obligor.”

§ 306. Billing practices
The Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601-1665) is amended by
adding at the end thereof a new chapter as follows:

“Chapter 4—CREDIT BILLING

“See.

“161. Correction of billing errors.
“162. Regulation of credit reports.
“163. Length of billing period.

“164, Prompt crediting of payments,
“165. Crediting excess payments.
“166. Prompt notification of returns.
“167. Use of cash discounts,

“168. Prohibition of tie-in services.
“169. Prohibition of offsets.

“170. Rights of credit card customers.
“171. Relation to State laws.

“$161. Correction of billing errors

So: URE 3886. “(a) If a creditor, within sixty days after having transmitted to an
obligor a statement of the obligor’s account in connection with an
extension of consumer credit, receives at the address disclosed under

Ante, p. 1511. — section 127(b) (11) a written notice (other than notice on a payment
stub or other payment medium supplied by the creditor if the creditor

Ante, p. 1511. 9 stipulates with the disclosure required under section 127(a) (8) )
from the obligor in which the obligor—

“(1) sets forth or otherwise enables the creditor to identify the
name and account number (if a of the obligor,

“(2) indicates the obligor’s belief that the statement contains
a billing error and the amount of such billing error, and

“(3) sets forth the reasons for the obligor’s belief (to the
extent applicable) that the statement contains a billing error,

the creditor shall, unless the obligor has, after giving such written
notice and before the expiration of the time limits herein specified,
agreed that the statement was correct—
= ”& not later than thirty days after the receipe of the notice,
send a written acknowledgement thereof to the obligor, unless the
action required in subparagraph (B) is taken within such thirty-
day pene: and
‘(B) not later than two complete billing cycles of the creditor
(in no event later than ninety days) after the receipt of the notice
and prior to taking any action to collect the amount, or anv part
thereof, indicated by the obligor under paragraph (2) either—
“(i) make appropriate corrections in the account of the
obligor, including the crediting of any finance charges on
amounts erroneously billed, and transmit to the obligor a
notification of such corrections and the creditor’s explanation
of any change in the amount indicated by the obligor under
paragraph (2) and, if any such change is made and the
obligor so requests, copies of documentary evidence of the
obligor’s indebtedness; or
“Gi) send a written explanation or clarification to the
obligor, after having conducted an investigation, setting
forth to the extent applicable the reasons why the creditor
believes the account of the obligor was correctly shown in
the statement and, upon request of the obligor, provide copies
of documentary evidence of the obligor’s indebtedness. In
the case of a billing error where the obligor alleges that the
ereditor’s billing statement reflects goods not delivered to
88 Stat.] | PUBLIC LAW 93-495-OCT. 28, 1974

the obligor or his designee in accordance with the agreement
made at the time of the transaction, a creditor may not con-
strue such amount to be correctly shown unless he determines
that such goods were actually delivered, mailed, or otherwise
sent to the obligor and provides the obligor with a statement
of such determination.
After complying with the provisions of this subsection with i
to an aileced billing error, a creditor has no further responsibility
under this section if the obligor continues to make substantially the
same allegation with respect to such error.

“(b) For the purpose of this section, a ‘billing error’ consists of any
of the following:

“(1) A reflection on a statement of an extension of credit which
was not made to the obligor or, if made, was not in the amount
reflected on such statement.

“(2) A reflection on a statement of an extension of credit for
which the obligor requests additional clarification including docu-
mentary evidence thereof. ;

“(3) A reflection on a statement of goods or services not
accepted by the obligor or his designee or not delivered to the
obligor or his designee in accordance with the agreement made
at the time of a transaction.

“(4) The creditor’s failure to reflect properly on a statement
a payment made by the obligor or a credit issued to the obligor.

*(5) A computation error or similiar error of an accounting
nature of the creditor on a statement.

“(6) Any other error described in regulations of the Board.

“(c) For the purposes of this section, ‘action to collect the amount,
or any part thereof, indicated by an obligor under paragraph (2)
does not include the sending of statements of account to the obligor
following written notice from the obligor as specified under sub-
section (a), if—

“(1) the obligor’s account is not restricted or closed because of
the failure of the obligor to pay the amount indicated under
paragraph (2) of subsection (a), and

“(2) the creditor indicates the payment of such amount is
not required pending the creditor’s compliance with this section.

Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit any action by
a creditor to collect any amount which has not been indicated by the
obligor to contain a billing error.

“(d) Pursuant to regulations of the Board, a creditor operating an
open end consumer credit plan may not, prior to the sending of the
written explanation or clarification required under paragraph (B)
( ii), restrict or close an account with respect to which the obligor has
indicated pursuant to subsection (a) that he believes such account to
contain a billing error solely because of the obligor’s failure to pay
the amount indicated to be in error. Nothing in this subsection shall
be deemed to prohibit a creditor from applying against the credit
limit on the obligor’s account the amount indicated to be in error.

“(e) Any creditor who fails to comply with the requirements of this
section or section 162 forfeits any right to collect from the obligor
the amount indicated by the obligor under paragraph (2) of sub-
section (a) of this section, and any finance charges thereon, except
that the amount required to be forfeited under this subsection may
not exceed $50.

“§$ 162. Regulation of credit reports

“(a) After receiving a notice from an obligor as provided in section
161(a), a creditor or his agent may not directly or indirectly threaten

1513

Definitions.

Noncompliance,

15 USC 1666a.
1514

15 USC 1666b.

15 USC 1666c.

15 USC 1666d,

15 USC 1666e,

PUBLIC LAW 93-495—OCT. 28, 1974 (88 Srar.

to report to any person adversely on the obligor’s credit rating or
credit standing because of the obligor’s failure to pay the amount
indicated by the obligor under section 161(a) (2), and such amount
may not be reported as delinquent to any third party until the creditor
has met the requirements of section 161 and has allowed the obligor
the same number of days (not less than ten) thereafter to make

ayment as is provided under the credit agreement with the obligor
or the payment of undisputed amounts.

“(b) If a creditor receives a further written notice from an obligor
that an amount is still in dispute within the time allowed for payment
under subsection (a) of this section, a creditor may not report to any
third party that the amount of the obligor is delinquent fication the
obligor has failed to pay an amount which he has indicated under
section 161(a) (2), unless the creditor also reports that the amount
is in dispute and, at the same time, notifies the obligor of the name
and address of each party to whom the creditor is reporting informa-
tion concerning the delinquency.

“(c) A creditor shall report any subsequent resolution of any delin-
quencies reported pursuant to subsection (b) to the parties to whom
such delinquencies were initially reported.

“§ 163. Length of billing period

“(a) If an open end consumer credit plan provides a time period
within which an obligor may repay any portion of the credit extended
without incurring an additional finance charge, such additional
finance charge may not be imposed with respect to such portion of the
credit extended for the billing cycle of which such period is a part
unless a statement which includes the amount upon which the finance
charge for that period is based was mailed at least fourteen days

rior to the date specified in the statement by which payment must
be made in order to avoid imposition of that finance charge.

“(b) Subsection (a) does not apply in any case where a creditor
has been prevented, delayed, or hindered in making timely mailing or
delivery of such periodic statement within the time period specified
in such subsection because of an act of God, war, natural disaster,
strike, or other excusable or justifiable cause, as determined under reg-
ulations of the Board.

“$164. Prompt crediting of payments

“Payments received from an obligor under an open end consumer
credit plan by the creditor shall be posted SOS RY. 2 to the obligor’s
account as specified in regulations of the Board. Such regulations shall
prevent a finance charge from being imposed on any obligor if the
creditor has received the obligor’s payment in readily identifiable form
in the amount, manner, location, and time indicated by the creditor

to avoid the imposition thereof.

“$165. Crediting excess payments

“Whenever an obligor transmits funds to a creditor in excess of the
total balance due on an open end consumer credit account, the creditor
shall promptly (1) upon request of the obligor refund the amount of
the overpayment, or (2) credit such amount to the obligor’s account.

“$166. Prompt notification of returns

“With respect to any sales transaction where a credit card has been
used to obtain credit, where the seller is a person other than the card
issuer, and where the seller accepts or allows a return of the goods
or forgiveness of a debit for services which were the subject of such
sale, the seller shall promptly transmit to the credit card issuer, a
credit statement with respect thereto and the credit card issuer shall
credit the account of the obligor for the amount of the transaction.
88 Star. } PUBLIC LAW 93-495-OCT. 28, 1974

“§ 167. Use of cash discounts

“(a) With respect to credit card which may be used for extensions
of credit in sales transactions in which the seller is a person other than
the card issuer, the card issuer may not, by contract or otherwise,
prohibit any such seller from offering a discount to a cardholder to
induce the cardholder to pay by cash, check, or similar means rather
than use a credit card.

“(b) With respect to any sales transaction, any discount not in excess
of 5 per centum offered by the seller for the purpose of inducing pay-
ment by cash, check, or other means not involving the use of a credit
eard shall not constitute a finance charge as determined under section
106, if such discount is offered to all prospective buyers and its avail-
ability is disclosed to all prospective buyers clearly and conspicuously
in accordance with regulations of the Board.

“§ 168. Prohibition of tie-in services

“Notwithstanding any agreement to the contrary, a card issuer may
not require a seller, as a condition to participating in a credit card plan,
to open an account with or procure any other service from the card
issuer or its subsidiary or agent.

“$169. Prohibition of offsets

“(a) A card issuer may not take any action to offset a cardholder’s
indebtedness arising in connection with a consumer credit transaction
under the relevant credit card plan against funds of the cardholder
held on deposit with the card issuer unless—

“(1) such action was previously authorized in — by the
cardholder in accordance with a credit plan whereby the card-
holder agrees periorieally to pay debts incurred in his open end
credit account by permitting the card issuer periodically to deduct
a a portion of such debt from the cardholder’s deposit account,
an

“(2) such action with respect to any outstanding disputed
hay hwy not be taken by the card issuer upon request of the card-

older.

In the case of any credit card account in existence on the effective date
of this section, the previous written authorization referred to in clause
(1) shall not be required until the date (after such effective date) when
such account is renewed, but in no case later than one year after such
effective date. Such written authorization shall be deemed to exist if
the card issuer has previously notified the cardholder that the use of
his credit card account will subject any funds which the card issuer
holds in deposit accounts of such cardholder to offset against any
amounts due and sre on his credit card account Which have not
been paid in accordance with the terms of the agreement between the
card issuer and the cardholder.

“(b) This section does not alter or affect the right under State law
of a card issuer to attach or otherwise levy upon funds of a cardholder
held on deposit with the card issuer if that remedy is constitutionally
available to creditors generally.

“$170. Rights of credit card customers

“(a) Subject to the limitation contained in subsection (b), a card
issuer who has issued a credit card to a cardholder pursuant to an
open end consumer credit plan shall be subject to all claims (other
than tort claims) and defenses arising out of any transaction in which
the credit card is used as a method of payment or extension of credit
if (1) the obligor has made a good faith attempt to obtain satisfactory
resolution of a disagreement or problem relative to the transaction
from the person honoring the credit card ; (2) the amount of the initial

1515

15 USC 1666f.

15 USC 1666¢.

15 USC 1666h.

15 USC 1666i.
1516

15 USC 1666j.

PUBLIC LAW 93-495-—OCT. 28, 1974 (88 Srar.

transaction exceeds $50; and (3) the place where the initial transaction
occurred was in the same State as the mailing address previously pro-
vided by the cardholder or was within 100 miles from such address,
except that the limitations set forth in clauses @) and (3) with
eae to an obligor’s right to assert claims and defenses against a
card issuer shall not be applicable to any transaction in which the
person honoring the credit card (A) is the same person as the card
issuer, (43) is controlled by the card issuer, (C) is under direct or
indirect common control with the card issuer, (D) is a franchised
dealer in the card issuer’s products or services, or (E) has obtained
the order for such transaction through a mail solicitation made by or
participated in by the card issuer in which the cardholder is solicited
to enter into such transaction by using the credit card issued by the
card issuer.

“(b) The amount of claims or defenses asserted by the cardholder
may not exceed the amount of credit outstanding with respect to such
transaction at the time the cardholder first notifies the card issuer or
the person honoring the credit card of such claim or defense. For the
purpose of deterniining the amount of credit outstanding in the
preceding sentence, payments and credits to the cardholder’s account
are deemed to have been agen in the order indicated, to the payment
of: (1) late charges in the order of their entry to the account; (2)
finance charges in order of their entry to the account; and (3) debits
to the account other than those set forth above, in the order in which
each debit entry to the account was made.

“$171. Relation to State laws

“(a) This chapter does not annul, alter, or affect, or exempt any
person subject to the provisions of this chapter from complying with,
the laws of any State with respect to credit billing practices, except to
the extent that those laws are inconsistent with any provision of this
chapter, and then only to the extent of the inconsistency. The Board is
authorized to determine whether such inconsistencies exist. The Board
may not determine that any State law is inconsistent with any pro-
vision of this chapter if the Board determines that such law gives
greater protection to the consumer.

“(b) The Board shall by regulation exempt from the requirements
of this chapter any class of credit transactions within any State if it
determines that under the law of that State that class of transactions
is subject to requirements substantially similar to those imposed under
this chapter or that such law gives greater protection to the consumer,
and that there is adequate provision for enforcement.”

§ 307. Conforming amendments
(a) The table of chapters of the Truth in Lending Act is amended
by adding immediately under item 3 the following :

“4. Crepir BILLING eed 161”

(b) Section 111(d) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 1610(d) ) is amended by
striking out “and 130” and inserting in lieu thereof a comma and the
following : “130, and 166”.

(c) Section 121(a) of such Act (15 U.S.C. {SS1(4}) is amended—

(1) by striking out “and upon whom a finance charge is or may
be imposed”; and
@ by inserting “or chapter 4” immediately after “this
chapter”.

(d) Section 121(b) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 1631(b)) is amended by
inserting “or chapter 4” immediately after “this chapter”.

(e) Section 122(a) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 1632(a)) is amended by
inserting “or chapter 4” immediately after “this chapter’.

88 Star, ] PUBLIC LAW 93-495—OCT. 28, 1974

(f) Section 122(b) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 1632(b)) is amended
by inserting “or chapter 4” immediately after “this chapter”.

§ 308. Effective date

This title takes effect upon the expiration of one year after the date
of its enactment.

TITLE st Mpa inianeage THE TRUTH IN LENDING
C

§ 401. Advertising; more-than-four-installment rule

(a) we om 3 of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1661-1665)
is amended by adding at the end thereof a new section as follows:

“§ 146. More-than-four-installment rule
“Any advertisement to aid, promote, or assist directly or indirect]
the extension of consumer credit repayable in more than four install-
ments shall, unless a finance charge is peel clearly and conspicu-
ously state, in accordance with the regulations of the Board:
“*THE COST OF CREDIT IS INCLUDED IN THE
PRICE QUOTED FOR THE GOODS AND SERVICES.’ ”
(b) The table of sections of such chapter is amended by adding
at the end thereof a new item as follows:

“146. More-than-four-installment rule.”.

§ 402. Agricultural credit exemption
Section 104 of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1603) is
amended by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph as follows:
“(5) Credit transactions primarily for agricultural purposes
in which the total amount to be financed exceeds $25,000.”

§ 403. Administrative enforcement
(a) Section 108(a) of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1607
(a)) is amended by striking out paragraph (4) and by redesignating
pa pa (5) and (6) as paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively.
(b) § ection 108(a) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 1607 (2)) is amended
by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph as follows:

“(6) the Farm Credit Act of 1971, by the Farm Credit Ad-
ministration with respect to any Federal land bank, Federal land
bank association, Federal intermediate credit bank, or produc-
tion credit association.”

§ 404. Liens arising by operation of State law
Section 125 of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1635) is
amended—

(1) by striking out “is” the first time it appears in the first
sentence of subsection (a) and inserting in lieu thereof “, includ-
ing any such interest arising by operation of law, is or will be”;
an

(2) by inserting after “obligor” the second time it appears in
the first sentence of subsection (b) the following: “, including any
such interest arising by operation of law,”.

§ 405. Time limit for right of rescission
Section 125 of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1635) is
amended by adding at the end thereof a new subsection as follows:
“(f) An obligor’s right of rescission shall expire three years after
the date of consummation of the transaction or upon the sale of the
property, whichever occurs earlier, notwithstanding the fact that the
disclosures required under this section or any other material dis-

1517

15 USC 1666
note,

15 USC 1665a,

12 USC 2001

note,
