91 STAT. 874

Sept. 20, 1977
[H.R. 5294]

Consumer Credit
Protection Act,
amendment.

Fair Debt
Collection
Practices Act.

15 USC 1601
note.

15 USC 1692.

AUTHENTICATED
U.S. GOVERNMENT
INFORMATION
GPO

PUBLIC LAW 95-109—SEPT. 20, 1977

Public Law 95-109

95th Congress
An Act

To amend the Consumer Credit Protection Act to prohibit abusive practices by
debt collectors.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Consumer
Credit Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) is amended by adding
at the end thereof the following new title:

; “TITLE VIII—DEBT COLLECTION PRACTICES
See.

“801. Short title,

“802. Findings and purpose.

“803. Definitions.

“804. Acquisition of location information.
“805. Communication in connection with debt collection.
“806. Harassment or abuse.

“S07. False or misleading representations.
“S08. Unfair practices.

“809. Validation of debts.

“810. Multiple debts.

“811. Legal actions by debt collectors,

“812. Furnishing certain deceptive forms.
“813. Civil liability.

“814. Administrative enforcement,

“815. Reports to Congress by the Commission.
“816. Relation to State laws.

“817. Exemption for State regulation.

“818. Effective date.

“§ 801. Short title
“This title may be cited as the ‘Fair Debt Collection Practices Act’.

“§ 802. Findings and purpose

“(a) There is abundant evidence of the use of abusive, deceptive,
and unfair debt collection practices by many debt collectors. Abusive
debt collection practices contribute to the number of personal bank-
ruptcies, to marital instability, to the loss of jobs, and to invasions
of individual privacy.

“(b) Existing laws and procedures for redressing these injuries are
inadequate to protect consumers.

“(¢) Means other than misrepresentation or other abusive debt col-
lection practices are available for the effective collection of debts.

“(d) Abusive debt collection practices are carried on to a substantial
extent in interstate commerce and through means and instrumentalities
of such commerce. Even where abusive debt collection practices are
purely intrastate in character, they nevertheless directly affect inter-
state commerce.

“(e) It is the purpose of this title to eliminate abusive debt collec-
tion practices by debt collectors, to insure that those debt collectors
who refrain from using abusive debt collection practices are not com-
petitively disadvantaged, and to promote consistent State action to
protect consumers against debt collection abuses.
PUBLIC LAW 95-109—SEPT. 20, 1977 91 STAT. 875

“§ 803. Definitions 15 USC 1692a.
“As used in this title—

“(1) The term ‘Commission’ means the Federal ‘Trade
Commission.

“(2) The term ‘communication’ means the conveying of infor-
mation regarding a debt directly or indirectly to any person
through any medium.

“(3) The term ‘consumer’ means any natural person obligated
or allegedly obligated to pay any debt.

“(4) The term ‘creditor’ means any person who offers or
extends credit creating a debt or to whom a debt is owed, but such
term does not include any person to the extent that he receives
an assignment or transfer of a debt in default solely for the
purpose of facilitating collection of such debt for another.

“(5) The term ‘debt’ means any obligation or alleged obliga-
tion of a consumer to pay money arising out of a transaction in
which the money, property, insurance, or services which are the
subject of the transaction are primarily for personal, family, or
household purposes, whether or not such obligation has Tees
reduced to judgment.

“(6) The term ‘debt collector’ means any person who uses any
instrumentality of interstate commerce or the mails in any busi-
ness the principal purpose of which is the collection of any debts,
or who regularly collects or attempts to collect, directly or indi-
rectly, debts owed or due or asserted to be owed or due another.
Notwithstanding the exclusion provided by clause (G) of the
last sentence of this paragraph, the term includes any creditor
who, in the process of collecting his own debts, uses any name
other than his own which would indicate that a third person is
collecting or attempting to collect such debts. For the purpose of
section: 808(6), such term also includes any person who uses any
instrumentality of interstate commerce or the mails in any busi-
ness the principal purpose of which is the enforcement of security
interests. The term does not include—

“(A) any officer or employee of a creditor while, in the
name of the creditor, collecting debts for such creditor;

“(B) any person while acting as a debt collector for
another person, both of whom are related by common owner-
ship or affiliated by corporate control, if the person acting
as a debt collector does so only for persons to whom it is so
related or affiliated and if the principal business of such
person is not the collection of debts ;

“(C) any officer or employee of the United States or any
State to the extent that collecting or attempting to collect
any debt is in the performance of his official duties;

“(D) any person while serving or attempting to serve
legal process on any other person in connection with the
judicial enforcement of any debt ;

“(E) any nonprofit organization which, at the request of
consumers, performs bona fide consumer credit counseling
and assists consumers in the liquidation of their debts by
receiving payments from such consumers and distributing
such amounts to creditors;

“(F) any attorney-at-law collecting a debt as an attorney
on behalf of and in the name of a client; and
91 STAT. 876

15 USC 1692b.

15 USC 1692c.

PUBLIC LAW 95-109—SEPT. 20, 1977

“(G) any person collecting or attempting to collect any
debt owed or due or asserted to be owed or due another to the
extent such activity (i) is incidental to a bona fide fiduciary
obligation or a bona fide escrow arrangement; (ii) concerns
a debt which was originated by such person; (iii) concerns
a debt which was not in default at the time it was obtained
by such person; or (iv) concerns a debt obtained by such

erson as a secured party in a commercial credit transaction
involving the creditor.

“(7) The term ‘location information’ means a consumer's place
of abode and his telephone number at such place, or his place of
employment.

“(8) The term ‘State’ means any State, territory, or possession
of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico, or any political subdivision of any of the fore-
going.

“§ 804. Acquisition of location information

“Any debt collector communicating with any person other than the
consumer for the purpose of acquiring location information about the
consumer shall—

“(1) identify himself, state that he is confirming or correcting
location information concerning the consumer, and, only if
expressly requested, identify his employer;

“ts not state that such consumer owes any debt;

« 3} not communicate with any such person more than once
unless requested to do so by such person or unless the debt collector
reasonably believes that the earlier response of such person is
erroneous or incomplete and that such person now has correct or
complete location information ;

= ( 4) not communicate by post card ;

“(5) not use any language or symbol on any envelope or in the
contents of any communication effected by the mails or telegram
that indicates that the debt collector is in the debt collection busi-
re or that the communication relates to the collection of a debt:
an

“(6) after the debt collector knows the consumer is represented
by an attorney with regard to the subject debt and has knowledge
of, or can readily ascertain, such attorney’s name and address, not
communicate with any person other than that attorney, unless the
attorney fails to respond within a reasonable period of time to
communication from the debt collector.

“§$ 805. Communication in connection with debt collection

“(a) Communication WitTH THE ConsuMER GENERALLY.—W ithout
the prior consent of the consumer given directly to the debt collector
or the express permission of a court of competent jurisdiction, a debt
collector may not communicate with a consumer in connection with
the collection of any debt—

“(1) at any unusual time or place or a time or place known or
which should be known to be inconvenient to the consumer. In
the absence of knowledge of circumstances to the contrary, a debt
collector shall assume that the convenient. time for communicatin
with a consumer is after 8 o’clock antimeridian and before 9 o’cloc
postmeridian, local time at the consumer’s location ;

“(2) if the debt collector knows the consumer is represented
by an attorney with respect to such debt and has knowledge of,
or can readily ascertain, such attorney’s name and address, unless
PUBLIC LAW 95-109—SEPT. 20, 1977

the attorney fails to respond within a reasonable period of time
to a communication from the debt collector or unless the attorney
consents to direct communication with the consumer ; or

“(3) at the consumer’s place of employment if the debt collector
knows or has reason to know that the consumer’s employer pro-
hibits the consumer from receiving such communication.

“(b) Communication Wirn Tarp Parries.—Except as provided
in section 804, without the prior consent of the consumer given directly
to the debt collector, or the express permission of a court of competent
jurisdiction, or as reasonably necessary to effectuate a postjudgment
judicial remedy, a debt collector may not communicate, in connection
with the collection of any debt, with any person other than the con-
sumer, his attorney, a consumer reporting agency if otherwise per-
mitted by law, the creditor, the attorney of the creditor, or the attorney
of the debt collector.

“(c) Crastne Communication.—If a consumer notifies a debt col-
lector in writing that the consumer refuses to pay a debt or that the
consumer wishes the debt collector to cease further communication
with the consumer, the debt collector shall not communicate further
with the consumer with respect to such debt, except—

“(1) to advise the consumer that the debt collector’s further
efforts are being terminated ;

“(2) to notify the consumer that the debt collector or creditor
may invoke specified remedies which are ordinarily invoked by
such debt collector or creditor ; or

“(3) where applicable, to notify the consumer that the debt
collector or creditor intends to invoke a specified remedy.

Tf such notice from the consumer is made by mail, notification shall be
complete upon receipt.

“(d) For the purpose of this section, the term ‘consumer’ includes
the consumer's spouse, parent (if the consumer is a minor), guardian,
executor, or administrator.

“§ 806. Harassment or abuse

“A debt collector may not engage in any conduct the natural con-
sequence of which is to harass, oppress, or abuse any person in con-
nection with the collection of a debt. Without limiting the general
application of the foregoing, the following conduct is a violation of
this section:

“(1) The use or threat of use of violence or other criminal
means to harm the physical person, reputation, or property of any
person.

“(2) The use of obscene or profane language or language the
natural consequence of which is to abuse the hearer or reader.

“(3) The publication of a list of consumers who allegedly refuse
to pay debts, except to a consumer reporting agency or to persons
meeting the requirements of section 603(f) or 604(3) of this Act.

“(4) The advertisement for sale of any debt to coerce payment
of the debt.

“(5) Causing a telephone to ring or engaging any person in
telephone conversation repeatedly or continuously with intent to
annoy, abuse, or harass any person at the called number.

“(6) Except as provided in section 804, the placement of tele-
phone calls without meaningful disclosure of the caller’s identity.

“§ 807. False or misleading representations

“A debt collector may not use any false, deceptive, or misleading
representation or means in connection with the collection of any debt.

91 STAT. 877

15 USC 1692d.

1681b.

15 USC 1692e.
91 STAT. 878 PUBLIC LAW 95-109—SEPT. 20, 1977

Without limiting the general application of tne foregoing, the follow-
ing conduct is a violation of this section :

“(1) The false representation or implication that the debt col-
lector is vouched for, bonded by, or affiliated with the United
States or any State, including the use of any badge, uniform, or
facsimile thereof.

“(2) The false representation of—

“tp the character, amount, or legal status of any debt; or

“(B) any services rendered or compensation which may be
a raed received by any debt collector for the collection of
a debt.

“(3) The false representation or implication that any individ-
ual is an attorney or that any communication is from an attorney.

“(4) The representation or implication that nonpayment of
any debt will result in the arrest or imprisonment of any person
or the seizure, garnishment, attachment, or sale of any property
or wages of any person unless such action is lawful and the debt
collector or creditor intends to take such action.

“(5) The threat to take any action that cannot legally be taken
or that is not intended to be taken.

“(6) The false representation or implication that a sale,
referral, or other transfer of any interest in a debt shall cause
the consumer to—

“By lose any claim or defense to payment of the debt; or

; B) become subject to any practice prohibited by this
title.

“(7) The false representation or implication that the consumer
committed any crime or other conduct in order to disgrace the
consumer,

*(8) Communicating or threatening to communicate to any
person credit information which is known or which should be
known to be false, including the failure to communicate that a
disputed debt is disputed.

“(9) The use or distribution of any written communication
which simulates or is falsely represented to be a document author-
ized, issued, or approved by any court, official, or agency of the
United States or any State, or which creates a false impression
as to its source, authorization, or approval.

“(10) The use of any false representation or deceptive means
to collect or attempt to collect any debt or to obtain information
concerning a consumer.

*(11) Except as otherwise provided for communications to
acquire location information under section 804, the failure to dis-
close clearly in all communications made to collect a debt or to
obtain information about a consumer, that the debt collector js
attempting to collect a debt and that any information obtained
will be used for that purpose.

“(12) The false representation or implication that accounts
have been turned over to innocent purchasers for value.

“(13) The false representation or implication that documents
are legal process.

“(14) The use of any business, company. or organization name
other than the true name of the debt collector’s business, company,
or organization.

“(15) The false representation or implication that documents
are not legal process forms or do not require action by the
consumer.
PUBLIC LAW 95-109—SEPT. 20, 1977

“(16) The false representation or implication that a debt col-
lector operates or is employed by a consumer reporting agency as
defined by section 603(f) of this Act.

“§ 808. Unfair practices

“A debt collector may not use unfair or unconscionable means to
collect or ot to collect any debt. Without limiting the general
application of the foregoing, the following conduct is a violation of
this section :

“(1) The collection of any amount (including any interest, fee,
charge, or expense incidental to the principal obligation) unless
such amount is expressly authorized by the agreement creating the
debt or permitted by law.

“(2) The acceptance by a debt collector from any person of a
check or other payment instrument postdated by more than five
days unless such person is notified in writing of the debt collector’s
intent to deposit such check or instrument not more than ten nor
less than three business days prior to such deposit.

“(3) The solicitation by a debt collector of any postdated check
or other postdated payment instrument for the purpose of threat-
ening or instituting criminal prosecution.

“(4) Depositing or threatening to deposit any postdated check
or other postdated payment instrument prior to the date on such
check or instrument.

“(5) Causing charges to be made to any person for communica-
tions by concealment of the true purpose of the communication.
Such charges include, but are not limited to, collect telephone
calls and telegram fees.

“(6) Taking or threatening to take any nonjudicial action to
effect dispossession or disablement of property if—

“(A) there is no present right to possession of the property
claimed as collateral through an enforceable security interest ;
“(B) there is no present intention to take possession of the

property ; or
uC) the property is exempt by law from such disposses-
sion or disablement.

“(7) Conmenienine with a consumer regarding a debt by

card.

“(8) Using any language or symbol, other than the debt col-
lector’s address, on any envelope when communicating with a
consumer by use of the mails or by telegram, except that a debt
collector may use his business name if such name does not indicate
that he is in the debt collection business.

“§ 809. Validation of debts

“(a) Within five days after the initial communication with a con-
sumer in connection with the collection of any debt, a debt collector
shall, unless the following information is contained in the initial com-
munication or the consumer has paid the debt, send the consumer a
written notice containing—

“tgs the amount of the debt;
“(2) the name of the creditor to whom the debt is owed;

“(3) a statement that unless the consumer, within thirty days
after receipt of the notice, disputes the validity of the debt, or any
paetion thereof, the debt will be assumed to be valid by the debt
collector ;

29-194 0 =- 80 - 58

91 STAT. 879

15 USC 1681a.
15 USC 1692f.

15 USC 1692g.
91 STAT. 880

15 USC 1692h.

15 USC 1692i.

15 USC 1692).

PUBLIC LAW 95-109—SEPT. 20, 1977

“(4) a statement that if the consumer notifies the debt collector
in writing within the thirty-day period that the debt, or any por-
tion thereof, is disputed, the debt collector will obtain verification
of the debt or a copy of a judgment against the consumer and a
copy of such verification or judgment will be mailed to the con-
sumer by the debt collector ; and

“(5) a statement that, upon the consumer’s written request
within the thirty-day period, the debt collector will provide the
consumer with the name and address of the original creditor, if
different from the current creditor.

“(b) If the consumer notifies the debt collector in writing within
the thirty-day period described in subsection (a) that the debt, or
any portion thereof, is disputed, or that the consumer requests the
name and address of the original creditor, the debt. collector shall cease
collection of the debt, or any disputed portion thereof, until the debt
collector obtains verification of the debt or a copy of a judgment, or
the name and address of the original creditor, and a copy of such
verification or judgment, or name and address of the original creditor,
is mailed to the consumer by the debt collector.

“(c) The failure of a consumer to dispute the validity of a debt
under this section may not be construed by any court as an admission
of liability by the consumer.

“$810. Multiple debts

“If any consumer owes multiple debts and makes any single pay-
ment to any debt collector with respect to such debts, such debt col-
lector may not apply such payment to any debt which is disputed
by the consumer and. where applicable, shall apply such payment in
accordance with the consumer’s directions.

“$811. Legal actions by debt collectors

“(a) Any debt collector who brings any legal action on a debt
against any consumer shall—
(1) in the case of an action to enforce an interest in real prop-
erty rele the consumer’s obligation, bring such action only
a judicial district or similar legal entity in which such real
property is located ; or
“(2) in the case of an action not described in paragraph (1),
bring such action only in the judicial district or similar legal
entity—
~ “(A) in which such consumer signed the contract sued
upon; or
“(B) in which such consumer resides at the commencement
of the action.
“(b) Nothing in this title shall be construed to authorize the bring-
ing of legal actions by debt collectors.

“$812. Furnishing certain deceptive forms

“(a) It is unlawful to design, compile, and furnish any form know-
ing that such form would be used to create the false belief in a con-
sumer that a person other than the creditor of such consumer is
participating in the collection of or in an attempt to collect a debt
such consumer allegedly owes such creditor, when in fact such person is
not so participating.

*(b) Any person who violates this section shall be liable to the same
extent and in the same manner as a debt collector is liable under sec-
tion 813 for failure to comply with a provision of this title.
PUBLIC LAW 95-109—SEPT. 20, 1977

“§ 813. Civil liability

“(a) Except as otherwise provided by this section, any debt col-
lector who fails to comply with any provision of this title with respect
oe any person is liable to such person in an amount equal to the sum
oO —

“(1) any actual damage sustained by such person as a result
of such failure;

“(2)(A) in the case of any action by an individual, such addi-
tional damages as the court may allow, but not exceeding $1.000;
or

“(B) in the case of a class action, (i) such amount for each
named plaintiff as could be recovered under subparagraph (A),
and (ii) such amount as the court may allow for all other class
members, without regard to a minimum individual recovery, not
to exceed the lesser of $500,000 or 1 per centum of the net worth
of the debt collector; and

“(3) in the case of any successful action to enforce the fore-
going liability, the costs of the action, together with a reasonable
attorney’s fee as determined by the court. On a finding by the
court that an action under this section was brought in bad faith
and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award to the
defendant attorney’s fees reasonable in relation to the work
expended and costs.

“(b) In determining the amount of liability in any action under
subsection (a), the court shall consider, among other relevant factors—

“(1) in any individual action under subsection (a) (2) (A), the
frequency and persistence of noncompliance by the debt collector,
the nature of such noncompliance, and the extent to which such
noncompliance was intentional; or

(2) im any class action under subsection (a) (2) (B), the fre-
quency and persistence of noncompliance by the debt collector, the
nature of such noncompliance, the resources of the debt collector,
the number of persons adversely affected, and the extent to which
the debt collector’s noncompliance was intentional.

“(c) A debt collector may not be held liable in any action brought
under this title if the debt collector shows by a preponderance of evi-
dence that the violation was not intentional and resulted from a bona
fide error notwithstanding the maintenance of procedures reasonably
adapted to avoid any such error.

= (d) An action to enforce any liability created by this title may be
brought in any appropriate United States district court without regard
to the amount in controversy, or in any other court of competent juris-
diction, within one year from the date on which the violation oceurs.

“(e) No provision of this section imposing any liability shall apply
to any act done or omitted in good faith in conformity with any
advisory opinion of the Commission, notwithstanding that after such
act or omission has occurred, such opinion is amended, rescinded, or
determined by judicial or other authority to be invalid for any reason.

“$814. Administrative enforcement

“(a) Compliance with this title shall be enforced by the Commis-
sion, except to the extent that enforcement of the requirements imposed
under this title is specifically committed to another agency under
subsection (b). For purpose of the exercise by the Commission of its
functions and powers under the Federal Trade Commission Act, a
violation of this title shall be deemed an unfair or deceptive act or
practice in violation of that Act. All of the functions and powers of

91 STAT. 381

15 USC 1692k.

Jurisdiction.

15 USC 16921.

15 USC 58.
91 STAT. 882

15 USC 58.

12 USC 1818.

12 USC 1464.
12 USC 1730.
12 USC 1426,
1437.

12 USC 1751.

49 USC 1301
note.

7 USC 181.
7 USC 226, 227.

15 USC 1692m.

PUBLIC LAW 95-109—SEPT. 20, 1977

the Commission under the Federal Trade Commission Act are avail-
able to the Commission to enforce compliance by any person with this
title, irrespective of whether that person is engaged in commerce or
meets any other jurisdictional tests in the Federal Trade Commission
Act, including the power to enforce the provisions of this title in the
same manner as if the violation had been a violation of a Federal
Trade Commission trade regulation rule.

“(b) Compliance with any requirements imposed under this title
shall be enforced under—

“(1) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in the case
of—

*(A) national banks, by the Comptroller of the Currency ;

“BS member banks of the Federal Reserve System (other
than national banks), by the Federal Reserve Board ; and

“(C) banks the deposits or accounts of which are insured

by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (other than

members of the Federal Reserve System), by the Board of
Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ;

“(2) section 5(d) of the Home Owners Loan Act of 1933, sec-
tion 407 of the National Housing Act, and sections 6(i) and 17
of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, by the Federal Home Loan
Bank Board (acting directly or through the Federal Savings and
Loan Insurance Corporation), in the case of any institution sub-
ject to any of those provisions;

“(3) the Federal Credit Union Act, by the Administrator of
the National Credit Union Administration with respect to any
Federal credit union;

“(4) the Acts to regulate commerce, by the Interstate Commerce
Commission with respect to any common carrier subject to those
Acts;

“(5) the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, by the Civil Aeronautics
Board with respect to any air carrier or any foreign air carrier
subject to that Act; and

“(6) the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (except as provided
in section 406 of that Act), by the Secretary of Agriculture with
respect to any activities subject to that Act.

“(c) For the purpose of the exercise by any agency referred to in
subsection (b) of its powers under any Act referred to in that sub-
section, a violation of any requirement imposed under this title shall
be deemed to be a violation of a requirement imposed under that Act.
In addition to its powers under any provision of law specifically
referred to in subsection (b). each of the agencies referred to in that
subsection may exercise, for the purpose of enforcing compliance with
any requirement imposed under this title any other authority con-
ferred on it by law, except as provided in subsection (d).

“(d) Neither the Commission nor any other agency referred to in
subsection (b) may promulgate trade regulation rules or other regula-
tions with respect to the collection of debts by debt collectors as defined
in this title.

“§ 815. Reports to Congress by the Commission

“(a) Not later than one year after the effective date of this title and
at one-year intervals thereafter. the Commission shall make reports to
the Congress concerning the administration of its functions under this
title, including such recommendations as the Cammission deems neces-
sary or appropriate. In addition, each report of the Commission shall
include its assessment of the extent to which compliance with this title
PUBLIC LAW 95-109—SEPT. 20, 1977

is being achieved and a summary of the enforcement actions taken by
the Commission under section 814 of this title.

“(b) In the exercise of its functions under this title, the Commis-
sion may obtain upon request the views of any other Federal agency
which exercises enforcement functions under section 814 of this title.

“§ 816. Relation to State laws

“This title does not annul, alter, or affect, or exempt any person sub-
ject to the provisions of this title from complying with the laws of any
State with respect to debt collection practices, except to the extent
that those laws are inconsistent with any provision of this title, and
then only to the extent of the inconsistency. For purposes of this
section, a State law is not inconsistent with this title if the protection
such law affords any consumer is greater than the protection provided
by this title.

“§ 817. Exemption for State regulation

“The Commission shall by regulation exempt from the requirements
of this title any class of debt collection practices within any State if
the Commission determines that under the law of that State that class
of debt collection practices is subject to requirements substantially
similar to those imposed by this title, and that there is adequate pro-
vision for enforcement.

“§ 818. Effective date

“This title takes effect upon the expiration of six months after the
date of its enactment, but section 809 shall apply only with respect to
oer which the initial attempt to collect occurs after such effective

ate.”.

Approved September 20, 1977.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY:

HOUSE REPORT No. 95-131 (Comm. on Banking, Finance, and Urban Affairs).
SENATE REPORT No. 95-382 (Comm. on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 123 (1977):
Apr. 4, considered and passed House.
Aug. 5, considered and passed Senate, amended.
Sept. 8, House agreed to Senate amendment.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 13, No. 39:
Sept. 20, Presidential statement.

91 STAT. 883

15 USC 1692n.

15 USC 16920.

15 USC 1692

note,
