PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DKEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2369

Public Law 103-204
103d Congress
An Act
To provide for the remaining funds needed to assure that the United States fulfills
its obligation for the protection of depositors at savings and loan institutions,
to improve the management of the Resolution Trust Corporation (“RTC”) in order Dec. 17, 1998
assets, to provide for a comprehensive transition plan to assure an [S. 714]
: C ti

ee ae Se the Dene Ge Manes se prenasatices of

the United States of America in Congress assembled, sores aga
SECTION 1, SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS. cet wigs Act.
(a) SHorRT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as the “Resolution jan Ta
Trust Corporation Completion Act”. 12 U USC 1421
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents for this Act ®
is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 3. RIC management ref
Ser, 5. Limtet ren teoek ae ; tion paid by the RTC and the Thrift
Sec. 6. FDIC—RTC transition task force.
Sec. 7. Amendments relating to the termination of the RTC
Sec. 8. SAIF funding authorization amendments.
Sec. 9. Moratorium
Sec. 10. Repayment schedule for permanent FDIC borrowing authority.
Sec. 12, Mesimus dollar limits for eligible condominium and single family
“ um ts um
Sec. 13. Changes affecting FDIC Si
Sec. 1d, Changes affecting both RTC and
Sec. 15. Right of first refusal for tenants ances ere
Sec. 16 Preference fr sales of real property for use far homelene
Sec. 17 eee ae of commercial to public agencies and non-
Siameipien gers eee res affordable
Sec. 18. Federal home loan banks housing
Sec. 19. Conflict of interest provisions appli poy: ay elena
Sec. 20. Restrictions on sales of assets to certain persons.
Sec. 21. Whistle blower protection.
- ™ FDIC asset swap canara ney decor taal.
Stnmrapesve footie inspector general
ae ae Decooee sebeione wolad attachment of
; to it of assets.
Sec. 26. GAO studies seating & disposition.
Sec. 27. Extension of or as conservator or receiver.
Sec. 28. Final report on
Bee Sh Commenlien Gil of tan Baatinlan eee Cimeeiiiion:
Sec. 30. Authority to execute contracts.
Sec. 31. RTC contracting.

AUTHENTICATED
U.S. GOVERNMENT
INFORMATION
GPO
107 STAT. 2370 PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

. f property.
33. Sense of the Congress relating to participation of disabled Americans in
contracting for delivery of services to financial institution regulatory
. Reporting requirements.
36. Continuation of conservatorships or receiverships.
transactions.

SEC. 2. FINAL FUNDING FOR RTC,

Section 21A(i) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C.
1441a(i)) is amended—
P aa in paragraph (3), by striking “until April 1, 1992”;
an
(2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
“(4) CONDITIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF FINAL FUNDING IN
EXCESS OF $10,000,000,000.—
“(A) CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.—Of the funds appro-
riated under paragraph (3) which are provided after April
1993, amount in excess of $10,000,000,000 shall
not be available to the Corporation before the date on
which the rea of the ury certifies to the Con-
a ye since the date of enactment of the Resolution
ration Completion Act, the Corporation has
faite < action as may be necessary to comply with
the requirements of subsection (w) or that, as of the date
of the certification, the ro aa ga is continuing to make
adequate progress tow full compliance with such
requirements.

“(B) APPEARANCE UPON REQUEST.—The Secretary of
the Treasury shall appear before the Committee on Bank-
ing, Finance and Urban Affairs of the rise of Representa-
tives or the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs of the Senate, upon the request of the chairman
of the committee, to ‘report on «3 certification made to
the Congress under eobyeregrenh<
“(5) RETURN TO TREASURY. the ‘aggregate amount of

funds transferred to oe Cospraien pursuant to this subsection
exceeds the amount n to carry out the p of this
section or to meet the requirements of section 1(aX6XF) of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, such excess amount shall
be “6) Fon in the general fund of the Treasury.

FUNDS ONLY FOR DEPOSITORS.—Notwithstanding any

pre vision of law other hen section 13(cX4XG) of the Federal

posit Insurance Act, funds appropriated under this section
_— not be used in any manner to benefit any shareholder
8) —

“(A) any insured depository institution for which the
Corporation has been appointed conservator or receiver,
in connection with any type of resolution by the Corpora-
tion;

“(B) any other insured depository institution in default
or in cane of default, in connection with any type of
resolution by the Corporation; or

“(C) any ins depository institution, in connection
with gc cake of assistance under section 11 or 13
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act with respect to such
institution, except that this subparagraph shall not prohibit
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2371

assistance to any insured depository institution that is
not in default, or that is not in of default, that
is acquiring (as defined in section 13(f{(8\B) of such Act)
another insured depository institution.”.

SEC. 3, RTC MANAGEMENT REFORMS.

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 21A of the Federal Home Loan Bank
Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a) is amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:

“(w) RTC MANAGEMENT REFORMS.—

“(1) COMPREHENSIVE BUSINESS PLAN.—The Corporation
establish and maintain a comprehensive business plan
covering the operations of the Corporation, including the dis-
position of assets, for the remainder of the Corporation’s exist-

ence.
“(2) MARKETING REAL PROPERTY ON AN INDIVIDUAL BASIS.—

The Corporation shall—

“(A) market undivided or controlling interest in
real property, whether held directly or indirectly by an
institution described in subsection (bX3)A), on an individ-
ual basis, including sales by auction, for no fewer than
120 days before such assets may be made available for
sale or other disposition on a portfolio basis or otherwise
included in a multiasset sales initiative, except that this
eng does not apply to assets that are—

i) sold simultaneously with a resolution in which
a buyer purchases a significant proportion of the assets
and assumes a significant proportion of the liabilities,
or acts as agent of the ewciice for posers of
paying insured deposits, of an institution described
in subsection (bX3XA); or

“(ii) transferred to a new institution i
ursuant to section 11(dX2XF) of the Federal Deposi
urance Act; and

“(B) prescribe regulations—

i) to require that the sale or other disposition
of any asset consisting of real Las, oad on a portfolio
basis or in connection with any multiasset sales initia-
tive after the end of the 120-day period described in
subparagraph (A) be justified in writing; and
- “(ii) to carry out the requirements of subparagraph

“(3) DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE RELATED ASSETS.—

“(A) PROCEDURES FOR DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE-
RELATED ASSETS.—The Corporation shall not sell real prop-
erty or any nonperforming real estate loan which the Cor-
poration has ra rc as receiver or conservator, unless—

“(i) the Corporation has assigned responsibility for
the management and disposition of such asset to a
qualified Seon or entity to—
each asset on an asset-by-asset
basis and consider alternative disposition strate-
gies for such asset;
“(II) develop a written management and dis-
position plan; and
“(III) implement that plan for a reasonable
period of time; or
107 STAT. 2372

PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

“(ii) the Corporation has made a determination
in writing that a bulk transaction would maximize
net recovery to the Corporation, while toa | oppor-
tunity for broad participation Se. Goal ee idders,
including minority- and women-o businesses.

“(B) DEFINITIONS.—In defining any term for purposes
of } 3: mena (A), the Corporation may, by regulation,
e—

de

“(i) the term ‘asset’ so as to include properties
or loans which are legally separate and distinct prop-
erties or loans, but which have sufficiently common
characteristics such that they may be logically treated
as a single asset; and

“(ii) the term ‘qualified person or entity’ so as
to include any moe of the Thrift Depositor Protec-
tion Oversight or any employee assigned to the
Corporation under subsection (bX8).
“(C) EXCEPTIONS.—This paragraph shall not apply to—

“(i) assets that are—

“(I) sold simultaneously with a resolution in

which a buyer purchases a significant proportion

of the assets and assumes a significant proportion

= the liabilities Ae! acts as agent of ye oe

or purposes of paying insured deposits) of an

institution désceitied ins ocbaaetine (bX3 XA); or

“(II) transferred to a new institution oe
a to section 11(d\X2XF) of the Federal
it Insurance Act;

“(ii) nonperforming real estate loans with a book
value of not more than $1,000,000;

“(iii) real property with a book value of not more

$400,000; or

“(iv) real property with a book value of more than
$400,000 or nonperforming real estate loans with a
book value of more than $1,000,000 for which the
Corporation determines, in writing, that a disposition
not in conformity with the requirements of subpara-
graph (A) will bring a greater return to the Corpora-

tion.
“(D) COORDINATION WITH PARAGRAPH (2).—No provision
of — pe ph shall supersede the requirements of para-
) ‘

4) DIVISION OF MINORITIES AND WOMEN PROGRAMS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation shall maintain a
division of minorities and women pro q

“(B) VICE PRESIDENT.—The of the division shall
be a vice president of the Corporation and a member of
the executive committee of the Corporation.

“(5) CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The chief executive officer of the
Corporation shall appoint a chief financial officer for the
Corporation.

“(B) AUTHORITY.—The chief financial officer of the Cor-
poration shall—

“(i) have no operating responsibilities with pr ost
to the Corporation other than as chief financial officer;
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2373

“(ii) report directly to the chief executive officer
of the Corporation; and
“(iii) have such authority and duties of chief finan-

cial officers of agencies r section 902 of title 31,

United States Code, as the Thrift Depositor Protection

Oversight Board determines to be appropriate with

respect to the Corporation.

“(6) BASIC ORDERING AGREEMENTS. —

“(A) REVISION OF PROCEDURES.—The Corporation shall
revise the A gee for reviewing and i seeecen ts
for eligibility for future contracts in a speci service
area (commonly referred to as ‘basic ordering agreements’
or ‘task ordering agreements’) in such manner as may
be necessary to ensure that small businesses, minorities,
and women are not inadvertently excluded from eligibility
for such contracts.

“(B) REVIEW OF LISTS.—To ensure the maximum

icipation level possible of minority- and women-owned

inesses, the Corporation

“(i) review all lists of contractors determined to
be eligible for future contracts in a specified service
area and other contracting mechanisms; and

4 “(ii) prescribe appropriate regulations and proce- Regulations.

ures.
“(7) IMPROVEMENT OF CONTRACTING SYSTEMS AND CONTRAC-
TOR OVERSIGHT.—The Corporation shall—
“(A) maintain such procedures and uniform standards
or—
“(i) entering into contracts between the Corpora-
tion and private contractors; and
“(ii) overseeing the performance of contractors and
subcontractors under such contracts and compliance
by contractors and subcontractors with the terms of
contracts and applicable regulations, orders, policies,
and guidelines of the Corporation,
as may appropriate in carrying out the Corporation’s
operations in as efficient and economical a manner as
may be practicable;

“(B) commit sufficient resources, including personnel,
to contract oversight and the enforcement of all laws, regu-
lations, orders, policies, and standards applicable to con-
tracts with the Corporation; and

“(C) maintain uniform procurement guidelines for basic
goods and administrative services to ree the acquisition
of such goods and services at widely different prices.

“(8) AUDIT COMMITTEE.—

“(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Thrift Depositor Protection
Oversight Board shall establish and maintain an audit
committee.

“(B) DuTies.—The audit committee shall have the fol-
lowing duties:

_ “{i) Monitor the internal controls of the Corpora-

tion.

“(ii) Monitor the audit findings and recommenda-
tions of the inspector general of the Corporation and
the Comptroller General of the United States and the
107 STAT. 2374

Reports.

PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

Corporation’s response to the findings and rec-
ommendations.
Gia! Snopeiiae ‘gunewet 40-dee “Gepermtion: eat the
r gene 0 on an e
oN IGy) Regularly report the findings and
iv and any rec-
ommendation of the audit committee to the Corporation
and the Thrift gh ng Protection ight Board.
“(v) Monitor financial operations of the Cor-
prreten and report any op ag problem identified
the audit committee to a and the
ift Depositor Protection Oversight R
“(C) FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ACT NOT
APPLICABLE.—The audit committee is not an advisory
committee within the meaning of section 3(2) of the Federal
Advisory Committee Act.
“(9) CORRECTIVE RESPONSES TO AUDIT PROBLEMS.—The Cor-

poration shall—

“(A) respond to problems identified by auditors of the
Corporation’s financial and asset-disposition ap asso
including problems identified in audit reports by the inspec-
tor general of the spo po haga the Comptroller General
of the United States, and the audit committee; or

“(B) certify to the Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight
Board that no action is necessary or appropriate.

“(10) ASSISTANT GENERAL COUNSEL FOR PROFESSIONAL

LIABILITY.—

“(A) APPOINTMENT.—The Corporation shall appoint,
within the division of legal services of the Corporation,
an assistant general counsel for professional liability.

“(B) DuTIES.—The assistant general counsel for profes-
sional liability shall—

“(i) direct the aera, REI evaluation, and
prosecution of all professional liability claims involving
the Corporation; and

“(ii) supervise all legal, investigative, and other
personnel and contractors involved in the litigation
of such claims.

“(C) SEMIANNUAL REPORTS TO THE CONGRESS.—The
assistant general counsel for professional liability shall sub-
mit to the Congress a comprehensive litigation report, not
— “(i) April 30 of each for the 6-month period

i 0 year for the 6-month peri
ending on Mardi 31 of that year; and

“(ii) October 31 of each year for the 6-month period
ending on September 30 of a
“(D) CONTENTS OF REPORTS.—The semiannual reports

required under map ar (C) shall each address the
activities of the counsel for professional liability under
sub ph (B) and all civil actions—
i) in which the Corporation is a party, which
are filed agai

) directors or officers of depository institu-

tions described in subsection (bX3)A); or
“(II) attorneys, accountants, Spereien, or
other licensed — who performed profes-
sional services for such depository institutions; and
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2375

“ii) which are initiated or pending during the
period covered by the report.

“(11) MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM.—The Corpora-
tion shall maintain an effective management information sys-
tem capable of providing complete and current information
to the extent the provision of such information is appropriate
and cost-effective.

“(12) INTERNAL CONTROLS AGAINST FRAUD, WASTE, AND
ABUSE.—The Corporation shall maintain effective internal con-
trols designed to prevent fraud, waste, and abuse, identify
any such activity should it occur, and promptly correct any
such activity.

“(13) FAILURE TO APPOINT CERTAIN OFFICERS OF THE COR-
PORATION.—The failure to fill any position established under
this section or any vacancy in any such position, shall be
treated as a failure to comply with the requirements of this
subsection for purposes of pabiectio nm (iX4).

“(14) REPORTS.—

“(A) DISCLOSURE OF EXPENDITURES.—The Corporation
shall include in the annual report submitted pursuant to
subsection (k\4) an itemization of the expenditures of the
Corporation during the for which funds provided
pursuant to subsection (iX3) were used.

“(B) PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF SALARIES.—The Corpora-
tion shall include in the annual report submitted pursuant
to subsection ~“ 2 oo of the oe _~ other
compensation paid during year cove y the report
to douties and senior executive officers at any depository
institution for which the Corporation has been appointed
conservator or receiver.

“(15) MINORITY- AND WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESSES CONTRACT
PARITY GUIDELINES.—The Corporation shall establish guidelines
for achieving the goal of a reasonably even distribution of
contracts awarded to the various subgroups of the class of
minority- and women-owned businesses and minority- and
women-owned law firms whose total number of certified con-
tractors comprise not less than 5 percent of all minority- and
women-owned certified contractors. The guidelines may reflect
the regional and local geographic distributions of minority
at Se Ba The distribution of contracts should not be accom-
plished at the expense of any eligible minority- or women-
owned business or law firm in any subgroup that falls below
the 5 nt threshold in any region or locality.

16) CONTRACT SANCTIONS FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH
SUBCONTRACT AND JOINT VENTURE REQUIREMENTS.—The Cor-
ration shall prescribe regulations which provide sanctions,
including contract penalties and suspensions, for violations by
contractors of requirements relating to subcontractors and joint
ventures.

“(17) MINORITY PREFERENCE IN ACQUISITION OF INSTITU-
TIONS IN PREDOMINANTLY MINORITY NEIGHBORHOODS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In considering offers to acquire any
insured depository institution, or any branch of an insured
ee located in a predominantly minority
neighbor: (as defined in regulations prescri under
subsection (s)), the Corporation shall give preference to
an offer from any minority individual, minority-owned busi-
107 STAT. 2376

PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DKEC. 17, 1993

ness, or a minority gored institution, over any other
offer that results in the same cost to the Corporation,
as determined under section 13(c\4) of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act.

“(B) CAPITAL ASSISTANCE.—

“(i) ELIGIBILITY.—In order to effectuate the pur-
poses of this paragraph, any minority individual,
minority-owned business, or a minority depository
institution shall be eligible for capital assistance under
the minority interim capital assistance program estab-
lished under subsection (uX1) and subject to the provi-
sions of subsection (uX3), to the extent that such assist-
ance is consistent with the application of section
13(cX4) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.

“(ii) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—Subsection (u)4)
shall not apply to capital assistance provided under
this subparagraph. gs
“(C) PERFORMING ASSETS.—In the case of an acquisition

of any depository institution or branch described in
subparagraph (A) by any minority individual, minority-
owned business, or a minority depository institution, the
Corporation may provide, in connection with such acquisi-
tion and in addition to performing assets of the depository
institution or branch, other performing assets under the
control of the Corporation in an amount (as determined
on the basis of the Corporation’s estimate of the fair market
value of the assets) not greater than the amount of net
liabilities carried on the books of the institution or branch,
including deposits, which are assumed in connection with
the acquisition.

“(D) FIRST PRIORITY FOR DISPOSITION OF ASSETS.—In
the case of an isition of any depository institution
or branch i in vir Sor a (A) by any minority
individual, minority-owned business, or a minority deposi-
tory institution, the disposition of the performing assets
of the depository institution or branch to such individual,
business, or minority depository institution shall have a
first priority over the disposition by the Corporation of
such assets for any other purpose.

“(E) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this paragraph, the
following definitions shall apply:

meaning as in section of the r posit

Insurance Act.

“(ii) MINORITY.—The term ‘minority’ has the same
meaning as in section 1204(cX3) of the Financial
—— Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act
0 i

“(iii) MINORITY DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION.—The
term ‘minority deposi institution’ has the same
meaning as in cebaestion (42)

“(iv) MINORITY-OWNED BUSINESS.—The term
‘minority-owned business’ has the same meaning as
in subsection (r)(4).

“(18) SUBCONTRACTS WITH MINORITY- AND WOMEN-OWNED

“(A) GOALS AND PROCEDURES.—
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2377

“(i) REASONABLE GOALS.—The Corporation shall
establish reasonable goals for contractors for services
with the Corporation to subcontract with minority-
and women-owned businesses and law firms.

“(ii) PROCEDURES.—The Corporation may not enter
into any contract for the ision of services to the
Corporation, including coal aartiesh under which the
contractor would receive fees or other compensation
in an amount equal to or greater than $500,000, unless
the Corporation requires the contractor to subcontract
with minority- or women-owned businesses, including
law firms, and to pay fees or other compensation to
such businesses in an amount commensurate with the
percentage of services provided by the business.

“(iii) EXCEPTIONS.—The Corporation may exclude
a contract from the requirements of clause (ii) if the
Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation determines
in writing that imposing such a subcontracting require-
ment would—

“(I) substantially increase the cost of contract
rformance; or
“(II) undermine the ability of the contractor
to perform its obligations under the contract.
‘WD In Gmemnal.—The Corps

i GENERAL.— rporation may grant a
waiver from the application of this paragraph to any
contractor with respect to a contract described in
subparagraph (AXii), if the contractor certifies to the
Corporation that it has determined that no eligible
minority- or women-owned business is available to
enter into a subcontract (with respect to such contract)
and provides an explanation of the basis for such deter-
mination.

“(ii) WAIVER PROCEDURES.—Any determination to

t a waiver under clause (i) shall be made in writing
by the Chief Executive Officer of the tion.

C) REPORT.—Each quarterly report submitted by the
Corporation yep to subsection (kX7) shall contain a
description of each exception granted under sub h
(AXiii) and each — i under cv sale. 3 )
et S cee Prous of ile ph, th

ONS.—For purposes paragra C)
following definitions shall apply:
i) MinoriTy.—The term ‘minority’ has the same
meaning as in section 1204(cX3) the Financial
— Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act
oO ;
“(ii) MINORITY- AND WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESS.—
The terms ‘minority-owned business’ and ‘women-
owned business’ have the same meanings as in sub-
section (r\(4).
“(19) CONTRACTING PROCEDURES,—

“(A) PROCEDURES.—In awarding any contract subj
to se tine blade process, > ee i
apply com ve bidding procedures are no less strin-
gent than those in effect on the date of the enactment
of the Resolution Trust Corporation Completion Act.
107 STAT. 2378

PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

“(B) Cost To dinananell ocperante in this Act, or any
other — of shall supersede the Corporation’s
primary duty of costs to the taxpayer and maxi-
rie Pst return to the Government.

“(20) GEMENT OF LEGAL SERVICES.—To improve the
management of | services, the Corporation—

“( utilize staff counsel when such utilization
would provide the same level of quality in legal services
as the use of —- counsel at the same or a lower
estimated cost; and

“(B) may Bag A employ outside counsel—

“(i) if the use of outside counsel would provide
the most practicable, efficient, and cost-effective resolu-
tion to the action; an

“(ii) under a negotiated fee, contingent fee, or
competitively bid fee agreement.

“(21) CLIENT RESPONSIVENESS UNITS.—The Corporation
shall ensure that every regional office of the Corporation con-
tains a client responsiveness unit responsible to the Corpora-
tion’s ombudsman.”.

(b) BORROWER APPEALS.—Section 21A(b\(4) of the Federal Home

Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. alee is amended by adding at
the end the following new s

12 USC l44la
note.

“(C) APPEALS. liane Corcensthca shall implement and
maintain a program, in a manner acceptable to the Thrift
Depositor tection Oversight Board, to rovide an
appeals process for business and comme borrowers
to ap decisions by the Corporation (when acting as
a conservator) which would have the effect of terminating
or otherwise adversely affecting credit or loan agreements,
lines of credit, and similar arrangements with such borrow-
ers who have not defaulted on their obligations.”.

(c) GAO Srupy oF PROGRESS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF

REFORMS.—

(1) STUDY REQUIRED.—The or ep pad General of the
United States shall conduct a study of the manner in which
the reforms required pursuant to the amendment made by
subsection (a) are being implemented by the Resolution Trust
Corporation and the progress being made by the Corporation
toward the achievement of full compliance with such require-
ments.

(2) INTERIM REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 6
months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller
en a the United States a submit an — oe
to the Congress containing the preliminary dings o e
Comptroller General in connection with the study required
under paragraph (1).

(3) FINAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General
«: the United States shall submit a report to the Congress

. (A) 1 oe ndings of the od holon es apa
on wi e study required under ‘agrap an
(B) such recommendations for legislative and adminis-
trative action as the Comptroller General may determine
to be appropriate.
(4) DISCLOSURE OF PERFORMING ASSET TRANSFERS.—
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2379

(A) REPORT REQUIRED.—The Comptroller General of
the United States shall submit an annual report to the
Congress on transfers of performing assets by the Corpora-
tion, categorized by institution, to any acquirer during the
year covered by the <—o

(B) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted under subpara-
graph (A) shall contain— pts

(i) the number and a description of asset transfers
during the year covered by the report;

(ii) the number of assets provided in connection
with each transaction during such ? sag? an

(iii) a report of an audit by the Comptroller Gen-

eral of the determination of the Corporation of the

fair market value of transferred assets at the time

of transfer.

(d) UTILIZATION OF SERVICES.—Section 11(d\2\K) of the Fed-
eral poe Insurance Seed aoe Ligue ioe is amended—
inserting - r “auction ing,”;
(2) rs striking “i and inserting “only if’; oe
” or by striking “practicable” and inserting “the most prac-
e”.
(e) RTC Notice To GSA.— 12 USC 1441a
(1) IN GENERAL.—Within a reasonable period of time after ™°te-
acquiring an undivided or controlling interest in any commer-
ial office property in its capacity as conservator or receiver,
the Corporation shall notify Administrator of General Serv-
ices of such acquisition.
(2) CONTENTS OF NOTICE.—The notice required under para-
prem () shall contain basic information about the property,
in —

(A) the location and condition of the property;
(B) information relating to the estimated fair market
value of the property; and

as ©) the = ramet schoisle, = estimate of the sched-

e, for marketi isposing of the property.

(3) COMPETITIVE BIDDING.—The Administrator of General
Services, in compliance with regulations of the Resolution Trust
Corporation, may bid on property described in the notice
required under paragraph (1) that is otherwise subject to
competitive bidding.

SEC. 4. EXTENSION OF STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 21A(b) of the Federal Home Loan
_— : sate (12 U.S.C. ae is amended by adding at the end
e fo —s new paragraph:
“(14) EXTENSION OF STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—
“(A) TORT ACTIONS FOR WHICH THE PRIOR LIMITATION
HAS RUN.—
“(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any tort claim—
“(I) which is described in clause (ii); and
“(II) for which the applicable statute of limita-
tions under section 11(dX14XA\ii) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act has expired before the date
of enactment of the Resolution Trust Corporation
Completion Act;
the statute of limitations which shall apply to an action
brought on such claim by the Corporation in the Cor-
107 STAT. 2380 PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

poration’s capacity as conservator or receiver of an

institution described in paragraph (3XA) shall be the

period determined under subparagraph (C).

“(ii) CLAIMS DESCRIBED.—A tort claim referred to
in clause (iI) with respect to an institution described
in paragraph (3)A) is a claim arising from fraud, inten-
tional misconduct resulting in unjust enrichment, or
intentional misconduct resulting in substantial loss to
the institution.

“(B) TORT ACTIONS FOR WHICH THE PRIOR LIMITATION
HAS NOT RUN.—

“i) IN  GENERAL.—Notwithstanding section
11(d14XA) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in
the case of any tort claim—

“(1) which is described in clause (ii); and
“(II for which the applicable statute of limita-
tions under section 11(dX14XAXii) of the Federal

Deposit Insurance Act has not expired as of the

date of enactment of the eedbition Trust Corpora-

tion Com or ature’ Act;

the statute of limitations which shall apply to an action

brought on such claim by the Corporation in the Cor-

tion’s capacity as conservator or receiver of an
institution described in paragraph (3A) shall be the

period determined under subparagraph (C).

“(ii) CLAIMS DESCRIBED.—A tort claim referred to
in clause (iI) with respect to an institution described
in paragraph (3A) is a claim arising from gross neg-
ligence or conduct that demonstrates a greater dis-
regard of a duty of care than gross negligence, includ-
ing intentional tortious conduct relating to the institu-
tion.

“(C) wordegcermgareeric OF PERIOD.—The period deter-
mined under this ph for any claim to which
sub ph (A or (By apis salle the To r of—

aaj ee Se Ee beginning on the date the
accrues (as determined pursuant to section

THaNLAN) 4\B) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act); or

' “(ii) the period applicable under State law for such

claim.

“(D) SCOPE OF APPLICATION.—Subparagraphs (A) and
(B) shall not apply to any action which is brought after
the date of the termination of the Corporation under sub-
section (m)1).”.

(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
11(dX14XAXii) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1821(d(14AXii)) is amended by inse “(other than a claim
which is subject to section 2 X14) of the Federal Home Loan
Bank Act)" » alter “ “any tort claim”.

SEC. 5. LIMITATION ON BONUSES AND COMPENSATION PAID BY THE
RTC AND THE THRIFT DEPOSITOR PROTECTION OVER-
SIGHT BOARD.

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 21A of the Federal Home Loan Bank

Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a) is amended by adding after subsection (w)
(as added by section 3(a) of this Act) the following new subsection:
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2381

“(x) LIMITATION ON EXCESSIVE COMPENSATION AND CASH

“(4) ESTABLISHMENT OF PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL SYSTEM
REQUIRED.—The Corporation shall be treated as an ncy
for of sections 4302 and 4304 of title 5, United States

e.
“(2) PROCEDURES FOR PAYMENT OF CASH AWARDS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Sections 4502, 4503, and 4505a of
title 5, United States Code, shall apply with respect to
the Corporation.

“(B) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT OF CASH AWARDS.—For

urposes of determining the amount of any performance-
ge cash award payable to employee of the Corpora-
tion under section 4505a of ‘title 5, United States "
the amount of basic of the employee which may be
taken into account under such section shall not exceed
the amount which is equal to the annual rate of basic
y payable for level I of the Executive Schedule.

EG) ALL OTHER CASH — a, BONUSES ee
Except as provided in paragra , no cash aw or bonus
may a mate to any employee of the Corporation.

“(4) LIMITATIONS ON CASH AWARDS AND BONUSES.—No
employee shall receive any cash award or bonus if such
employee has given notice of an intent to resign to take a
position in the private sector before the payment of such cash
award or bonus or accepts employment in the private sector
not later than 60 days after receipt of such award or bonus.
provi in paragra an , ho employee may receive
a total amount of dinscaneen. benefits, basic pay, and other
compensation, including bonuses and other awards, in excess
of total amount of allowances, benefits, basic pay, and
other Saas er including bonuses and other aw. , which
are provided to the chief executive officer of the Corporation.

6) NO REDUCTION IN RATE OF PAY.—The annual rate of
basic pay and benefits, including any regional pay differential,
payable to any employee who was an employee as of the date
of enactment of the lution Trust Corporation Completion
Act for any year ending after such date of enactment shall
not be reduced, by reason of - (5), below the annual
rate of basic and benefits, including any regional pay
differential, paid to such employee, by reason of such employ-
ment, as of such date.

“(7) EMPLOYEES SERVING IN ACTING OR TEMPORARY CAPAC-
ITy.—In the case of any employee who, as of the date of enact-
ment of the Resolution Trust Corporation Completion Act, is
serving in an acting capacity or is otherwise temporarily
employed at a higher grade than such employee’s regular grade
or position of employment—

“(A) the annual rate of basic pay and benefits, including
any regional pay differential, payable to such employee
in such capacity or at such higher grade shall not be
reduced by reason of paragraph (5) so long as such
employee —! to serve in such capacity or at such

er e; an

“(B) after such employee ceases to serve in such capac-
ity or at such higher grade, paragraph (6) shall be applied
107 STAT. 2382 PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

12 USC 144la
note.

with respect to such employee by taking into account only
the annual rate of basic pay and benefits, including an
regional differential, payable to such employee in su
ae gh 8 regular grade or position of employment.

“(8) DEFINITIONS.—

“(A) ALLOWANCES.—For —_— of ph (5), the
term ‘allowances’ does not include any allowance for travel
and subsistence expenses incurred by an employee while
aver from home or designated post of duty on official

usiness.

“(B) EMPLOYEE.—For purposes of this subsection and
sections 4302, 4502, 4503, and 4505a of title 5, United
States Code (as applicable with respect to this subsection),
the term ‘employee’ includes any officer or employee
assigned to the Corporation under subsection (bX8) and
any officer or employee of the Thrift Depositor Protection
Oversight Board.”.

(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
‘ (1) AMENDMENT pen — Pepe + “sr of title 5, United
tates Code, is amen y striking the following item:

“chief executive officer of the Resolution ‘Trust Corpora-

(2) FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK ACT AMENDMENT.—Section
21A(aX6) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C.
1441a(aX6)) is ae by adding at the end the following

new subparagraph:
“(K) To establish the rate of basic pay, benefits, and
other compensation for the chief executive officer of the
Corporation.”.

SEC. 6. FDIC—RTC TRANSITION TASK FORCE.

(a) ESTABLISHMENT REQUIRED.—The Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation and the Resolution Trust Corporation shall establish
an in ncy transition task force. The task force shall facilitate
the er of the assets, personnel, and operations of the Resolu-
tion Trust oo abe are to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
or the FSLIC lution Fund, as the case may be, in a coordinated
manner.

(b) MEMBERS.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—The transition task force shall consist
of such number of officers and employees of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation and the Resolution Trust Corporation
as the Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation and the chief executive officer
of the Resolution Trust Corporation may jointly determine to
be Bry eer

(2) APPOINTMENT.—The Chairperson of the Board of Direc-
tors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the
chief executive officer of the Resolution Trust Corporation shall
appoint the members of the transition task force.

(3) NO ADDITIONAL PAY.—Members of the transition task
force shall receive no apace angi op , allowances, or benefits
by reason of their service on the orce.

P Pa DuTIES.—The transition task force shall have the following
uties:

(1) Examine the operations of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation and the Resolution Trust Corporation to iden-

tion
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2383

tify, evaluate, and resolve differences in the operations of the
corporations to facilitate an orderly merger of such operations.

(2) Recommend which of the management, resolution, or
asset disposition systems of the Resolution Trust Corporation
should be preserved for use by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation.

(3) Recommend procedures to be followed by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Resolution Trust Cor-
poration in connection with the transition which will promote—

(A) coordination between the corporations before the
termination of the Resolution Trust Corporation; and

(B) an orderly transfer of assets, personnel, and oper-
ations.

(4) Evaluate the management enhancement goals
applicable to the Resolution Trust Corporation under section
21A(p) of the Federal Home Loan Act and recommend
which of such goals should apply to the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance age tes arc

(5) Evaluate the management reforms applicable to the
Resolution Trust Corporation under section 21A(w) of the Fed-
eral Home Loan Bank Act and recommend which of such
reforms should apply to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion.

(d) REPORTS TO BANKING COMMITTEES.—

(1) REPORTS REQUIRED.—The transition task force shall
submit a report to the Committee on Banking, Finance and
Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Commit-
tee on ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate
not later than January 1, 1995, and a second report not later
than July 1, 1995, on the progress made by transition
task force in meeting the requirements of this section.

(2) CONTENTS OF REPORT.—The reports required to be
submitted under paragraph (1) shall contain the findings and
recommendations made by the transition task force in coring
out the duties of the task force under subsection (c) and s
recommendations for legislative and administrative action as
the task force may determine to be a Hy rug
(e) FoLLOwuP REPORT BY FDIC.—Not later than January 1,

1996, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall submit a
report to the Committee on ing, Finance and Urban Affairs
of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate containing—

(1) a description of the recommendations of the transition
task force which have been adopted by the Corporation;
tosh & are he ei mia peace go pg fade oe

orce whi ve not n ation;

(3) a detailed explanation of the reasons why the Corpora-
a = not adopt each recommendation ibed in paragraph

; an

(4) a description of the actions taken by the Corporation

> omen with section 21A(m\3) of the Federal Home Loan

SEC. 7. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO THE TERMINATION OF THE RTC.

(a) AMENDMENT RELATING TO TRANSFER OF PERSONNEL AND
SYSTEMS.—Section 21A(m) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act
107 STAT. 2384 PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

(12 U.S.C. 1441la(m)) is amended by adding at the end the following

new p h:

43) TTRANSFER OF PERSONNEL AND SYSTEMS.—In connection
with the assumption by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion of conservatorship and receivership functions with respect
to institutions described in subsection (bX3XA) and the termi-
nation of the Corporation pursuant to paragraph (1)—

“(A) any management, resolution, or asset-disposition
system of the Corporation which the Secretary of the Treas-
ury determines, after considering the recommendations of
the interagency transition task force under section 6(c)
of the Resolution Trust Corporation Completion Act, has
been of benefit to the operations of the Corporation (includ-
ing any personal property of the Corporation which is used
in operating any such system) shall, notwithstanding para-
graph (2), be Ganaherved to and used by the Federal Deposit

nsurance Corporation in a manner which preserves the
integrity of the system for so long as such system is efficient
and cost-effective; and

“(B) any personnel of the Corporation involved with
any such system who are otherwise eligible to be trans-
ferred to the Federal ea Insurance Corporation shall
be transferred to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion for continued employment, subject to section 404(9)
of the Financial Institutions orm, Recovery, and
Enforcement Act of 1989 and other applicable provisions
of this section, with respect to such system.”.

(b) AMENDMENT RELATING TO DATE OF TERMINATION.—Section
21A(m\1) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C.
144la(m\(1)) is amended by striking “December 31, 1996” and
inserting “December 31, 1995”.

SEC. 8. SAIF FUNDING AUTHORIZATION AMENDMENTS.

(a) AMENDMENT TO SAIF FUNDING PROVISION.—Section
11(aX6XD) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1821(aX6\D)) is amended to read as follows:

“(D) TREASURY PAYMENTS TO FUND.—To the extent of
the availability of amounts provided in ap copes Acts
and subject to subparagraphs (E) and (G), Secretary
of the Treasury s pay to the Savings Association Insur-
ance Fund such amounts as may be needed to pay losses
incurred by the Fund in fiscal years 1994 through 1998.”.

(b) CERTIFICATION OF NEED FOR FUNDS AND OTHER CONDITIONS
on SAIF FuNDING.—Section 11(aX6XE) of the Federal Deposit
parece Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(aX6XE)) is amended to read as
ollows:

“(E) CERTIFICATION CONDITIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF
FUNDING.—No amount appropriated for payments by the
Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with subp ph
(D) for any fiscal year may be expended unless the Chair-
person of the Board of Directors certifies to the Congress
at any time before the beginning of or during such fiscal

year, that—
“(i) such amount is needed to pay for losses which
have been incurred or can reasonably be to
be incurred by the Savings Association ce

Fund;
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2385

“(ii) the Board of Directors has determined that—

“(I) Savings Association Insurance Fund mem-
bers, in the aggregate, are unable to pay additional
semiannual assessments under section 7(b) at the
assessment rates which would be required in order
to cover, from such additional assessments, losses
which have been incurred or can reasonably be
expected to be incurred by the Fund without
adversely affecting the ability of such members
to raise and maintain capital or to maintain the
members’ assessment base; and

“(II) an increase in the assessment rates for

Savings Association Insurance Fund members to

cover such losses could reasonably be expected to

result in teary losses to the Government;

“(iii) the of Directors has determined that—

“(I) Savings Association Insurance Fund mem-
bers, in the aggregate, are unable to pay additional
semiannual assessments under section 7(b) at the
assessment rates which would be required in order
to meet the repayment schedule required under
section 14(c) for any amount borrowed under sec-
tion 14(a) to cover losses which have been incurred
or can reasonably be expected to be incurred by
the Fund without adversely affecting the ability
of such members to raisé* and maintain capital
or to maintain the members’ assessment base; and

“(II) an increase in the assessment rates for

Savings Association Insurance Fund members to

meet any such repayment schedule could reason-

ably be expected to result in greater losses to
the Government;

“(iv) as of the date of certification, the Corporation
hae 2 a eee Soe = enna Set the
activities of Savings Association Insurance Fund
and the affairs of any Savings Association Insurance
Fund member for which a conservator or receiver has
been appointed are conducted in an efficient manner
and the Corporation is in compliance with such proce-

d
“(v) with respect to the most recent audit of the

Savings Association Insurance Fund by the Comptrol-
ler General of the United States before the date of
the certification—
“(I) the Corporation has taken or is taking
appropriate action to implement any recommenda-
tion made by the Comptroller General; or

_ “CD no corrective action is necessary or appro-

te:

evi) the Corporation has provided for the appoint-
ment of a chief financial officer who—

“ “(I) does not have other operating responsibil-
ities;

“(II) will report directly to the Chairperson
of the Corporation: and

“(III) will have such authority and duties of
chief financial officers under section 902 of title
107 STAT. 2386

PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

31, United States Code, as the Board of Directors
of the Corporation determines to be appropriate
with respect to the Corporation;

“(vii) the Corporation has provided for the appoint-
ment of a senior officer whose responsibilities shall
include setting uniform standards for contracting and
contracting enforcement in connection with the
administration of the Fund;

“(viii) the Corporation is implementing the minor-

ity ou rovisions mandated by section 1216 of
the Fi ial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and
Enforcement Act of 1989;

“(ix) the Corporation has provided for the appoint-
ment of a senior attorney, at the assistant general
counsel level or above, responsible for professional
liability cases; and

“(x) the Corporation has improved the manage-

_ ment of legal services by—

“(I) utilizing staff counsel when such utiliza-
tion would provide the same level of quality in
legal services as the use of outside counsel at
the same or a lower estimated cost; and

“(II) employing outside counsel only if the use
of outside counsel would provide the most prac-
ticable, efficient, and cost-effective resolution to
the action and only under a negotiated fee, contin-
gent fee, or competitively bid fee agreement.”.

(c) AVAILABILITY OF UNEXPENDED RTC FUNDING FOR SAIF.—

Section 11(aX6\F) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1821(aX6XF)) is amended to read as follows:

1: pd pg ogy ie OF RTC de gaicenue rrr any Araya agg
e end of the 2-year period beginning on the date o
the termination of the hanabaticn Trust Corporation, the
Secretary of the Treasury shall provide, out of funds appro-
priated to the Resolution Trust Corporation pursuant to
section 21A(iX(3) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act and
not expended by the Resolution Trust Corporation, to the
Savings Association Insurance Fund, for any year such
amounts as are needed by the Fund and are not needed
by the Resolution Trust Corporation, if the Chairperson
a a oe ee
a
“(i) such amount is needed to pay for losses which
have been incurred or can reasonably be e to
be incurred by the Savings Association urance

“(ii) the Board of Directors has determined that—

“(I) Savings Association Insurance Fund mem-
bers, in the aggregate, are unable to pay additional
semiannual assessments under section 7(b) at the
assessment rates which would be required in order
to cover, from such additional assessments, losses
which have been incurred or can reasonably be
expected to be incurred by the Savings Association
Insurance Fund without adversely affecting the
ability of such members to raise and maintain
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2387

cette), ap: 50 Saarenee: See mRnERe Sanenemnent
. ae

i t;

“(iii) the of Directors has determined that—

“(I) Savings Association Insurance Fund mem-
bers, in the aggregate, are unable to pay additional
semiannual assessments under section 7(b) at the
assessment rates which would be required in order
to meet the repayment schedule required under
section 14(c) for any amount borrowed under sec-
tion 14(a) to cover losses which have been incurred

the Savings Association ce Fund without

adversely affecting the ability of such members

to raise and maintain capital or to maintain such
members’ assessment base; and
“(II an increase in the assessment rates for

Savings — Insurance Fund members to

meet any mee. Sepeyine® schedule could reason-

ate Us ecnuiek result in greater losses to
the Government;

“(iv) the Corporation has provided for the appoint-
ment of a chief financial officer who—

v “(I) does not have other operating responsibil-

ities;

“(II) will report directly to the Chairperson
of the Corporation; and

“(III) will have such authority and duties of
chief financial officers under section 902 of title

31, United States Code, as the Board of Directors

of the Corporation determines to be appropriate

SGe! tne Corporation ban peoried doe ihe

v) the Corporation appoint-
ment of a senior officer whose responsibilities shall
include setting uniform standards for contracting and
contracting enforcement in connection with the
administration of the Fund;

“(vi) the Corporation is pepentng the minority

outreach provisions mandated by section 1216 of the
Pinuncial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforce-
ment Act of 1989;

“(vii) the Corporation has provided for the appoint-
ment of a senior attorney, at the assistant ge
counsel level or above, responsible for professional
liability cases; and

“(viii) the Corporation has improved the manage-
ment of legal services by—

) utilizing staff counsel when such ee
tion would provide the same level of quali
legal services as the use of outside counse
the same or a lower estimated cost; and

“(ID agp outside counsel only if the use
of outside counsel would provide the most prac-
ticable, efficient, and cost-effective resolution to

69-194 O - 94 - 15: QL. 3 Part 3
107 STAT. 2388 PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

12 USC 1821
note.

the action and only under a negotiated fee, contin-
gent fee, or competitively bid fee agreement.”.

(d) APPEARANCES BEFORE THE BANKING COMMITTEES.—Section
11(aX6XH) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1821(aX6XH)) is amended to read as follows:

“(H) APPEARANCE UPON REQUEST.—The Secretary of
the Treasury and the Chairperson of the Board of Directors
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall spacer
before the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban
Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate,
upon the request of the chairman of the committee, to
sh on any certification made to the Congress under
subparagraph (E) or (F).”.

(e) AMENDMENTS TO AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATION.—Sec-
tion 11(aX6XJ) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1821(aX6XJ)) is amended—

(1) by striking “There are” and inserting “Subject to
subpecegrer (E), there are”; and

(2) ae “of this paragraph, except” and all that

follows cheetah e period and inserting the following: “of
subparagraph (D) for fiscal years 1994 ugh 1998, except
that the aggregate amount appropriated pursuant to this
authorization may not exceed $8,000,000,000.”.

(f) RETURN OF SFERRED AND UNEXPENDED AMOUNTS TO
TREASURY.—Section 11(aX6) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
(12 oie oe is amended by adding at the end the following
new :

RETURN TO TREASURY.—If the aggregate amount
of funds transferred to the Savings Association Insurance
Fund under sub ph (D) or (F) exceeds the amount
needed to cover losses incurred by the Fund, such excess
amount shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treas-

(g) GAO REPORT.—Not later than 60 days after receipt of
any certification submitted pursuant to subparagraph (E) or (F)
of section 11(aX6) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the
Comptroller General shall transmit a report to the Congress
evaluating any such certification.

(h) ADJUSTMENT OF SAIF SCHEDULE.—Effective on the effective
date of the amendment made by section 302(a) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, section
7(bX3XC) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
bbe aad is Frog dh ing “, but Be a te may
not exten e i in su p and inserting
“and such amendment may extend the date ified in subpara-
graph (B) to such later date as the Corporation determines will,
over time, maximize the amount of semiannual assessments
received by the Savings Association Insurance Fund, net of insur-
ance losses incurred by the Fund.”.

(i) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section
1l(aX6XG) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
eee bo “ering “sub hs (E) and (F)” and

y striking “subparagrap an and inserting

“sub ae (D)”; and

2) in the heading, by striking “SUBPARAGRAPHS (E) AND
(F)” and inserting “SUBPARAGRAPH (D)”.
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2389

SEC. 9. MORATORIUM EXTENSION.

(a) CONVERSION MORATORIUM UNTIL SAIF RECAPITALIZED.—
Section 5(d2\AXii) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
es by striking “bel the end” and inserting “before the

re the e
Mn ee et te rt ee
ie e on Ww -
tion leunce fos d first meets or as an ae cues
reserve ratio for such fund” before the

(b) CLARIFICATION OF DEFINITION. ction 5(dX 2B) of the

Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1815(dX2XB)) is

(1) ting” ee ee period at the end of clause (iv) and

adding at the end the following:
“(v) the transfer of deposits—
“(I) from a Bank Insurance Fund member to
a Savings Association Insurance Fund member;

or
“(II) from a Savings Association Insurance
Fond eataahor toa Mak labataaes Fond eaaber:
in a transaction in which the deposit is received from
. Bc itor at an insured depository institution for
a receiver has been appointed and the receiving
paca depository institution is as agent for
the Corporation in connection with payment of
such deposit to the depositor at = institution for
which a receiver has been appoin
(c) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING eae <Bection 5(d)
of po A aap: Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1815(d)) is
ame

(1) in clauses (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (2\(C); and
b striking “6- “5 aa nas to in” and “morato
ri e in” inserting “moratorium
satiad sot Sbliched fe

SEC. 10. REPAYMENT SCHEDULE FOR PERMANENT FDIC BORROWING
AUTHORITY.

Section 14(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1824(c)) is amended by adding at ag end the following new para-

graph:
“(3) INDUSTRY REPAYMENT.—

“(A) BIF MEMBER PAYMENTS.—No mt or vdelg od
ment schedule under a ae (1) any pay-
ment by a Bank member for funds obtained
~s subsection (a) for purposes of the Savings Association

“(B) SAIF 2 PAYMENTS.—. ment or repay-
mow aap under Paragraph edna all re spond pay-

a d member
ring He ed rg pcr ag ra geet rag
the Bank Insurance Fund.”.

SEC. 11. DEPOSIT INSURANCE FUNDS.

Section 11(aX4) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1821(a\X4)) is amended to read as follows:
“(4) GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO FUNDS.—
107 STAT. 2390

PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DKEC. 17, 1993

“(A) MAINTENANCE AND USE OF FUNDS.—The Bank
Insurance Fund established under paragraph (5) and the
Savings Association Insurance Fund lished under
paragraph (6) shall each be—

“ “(i) maintained and administered by the Corpora-

on;
F “(ii) maintained separately and not commingled;

“(iii) used by the Corporation to out its insur-
ance purposes in the manner provi in this sub-
section.

“(B) LIMITATION ON er oe ogra, 3 be
sion of law other than section 13(cX4XG), the
ance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance
sel not be used in any manner to benefit any shareholder
OI1—

prov’
Fund

“(i) any insured depository institution for which
the Corporation or the lution Trust Corporation
has been appointed conservator or receiver, in connec-
tion with any of resolution by the Corporation
or the Resolution t Corporation;

“Gi) any other ins wopomnery institution in
default or in danger of default, in connection with
any of resolution by the Corporation or the Resolu-
tion Corporation; or

“(iii) any insured depository institution, in connec-
tion with the provision of assistance under this section
or section 13 with respect to such institution, except
that this clause shall not prohibit any assistance to
y insured depository institution t is not in
default, or that is not in danger of default, that is
acquiring (on defined in section 13(f8\B)) another
insured depository institution.”.

SEC. 12. MAXIMUM DOLLAR LIMITS FOR ELIGIBLE CONDOMINIUM AND

SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTIES UNDER RTC AFFORDABLE
HOUSING PROGRAM.

Section 21A(cX9) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12

U.S.C. 1441a(cX9)) is amended—

(1) in sub ph (D), by striking clause (ii) and inserting

the following new clause:

“(ii) that has an appraised value that does not

“(I) $67,500 in the case of a 1-family residence,
$76,000 in the case of a 2-family residence, $92,000
in the case of a 3-family residence, and $107,000
in the case of a 4-family residence; or

“(II) only to the extent or in such amounts
as are provided in appropriation Acts for additional

costs and losses to rporation resulting from
this subclause ing effect, the amount crovieee
in section 203(bX2XMA) of the National Housi

Act, except that such amount shall not acm
101,250 in the case of a 1-family residence,
114,000 in the case of a 2-family residence,
138,000 in ieee case of a 3-family residence, and

case

160,500 in of a 4-family residence.”; and
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DKC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2391

(2) in subparagraph (G)—
(A) by moving subclause (I) two ems to the left and
redesignating such subclause as clause (i); and
by striking subclause (II) and inserting the follow-

use:
“(ii) that has an appraised value that does not

“(I) $67,500 in the case of a 1-family residence,
$76,000 in the case of a 2-famil residence, $92,000
in the case of a 3-family residence, and $107,000
in the case of a 4-family residence; or

“(II) only to the extent or in such amounts
as are provided in ap ee Acts for additional
costs and losses to rporation resulting from
this subclause ing effect, the amount provided
in section 203(bX2XA) of the National —
Act, except that such amount shall not
Hie in the case of a 1-family residence,

ing new

114,000 in the case of a 2-family residence
138,000 in the case of a 3-family residence, and
160,500 in the case of a 4-family residence.”.

SEC. 13. CHANGES AFFECTING ONLY FDIC AFFORDABLE HOUSING
PROGRAM.

Section 40(p) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1831q(p)) is amended in paragraphs (4XA), (5A), and (7XA), by
inserting before “; and” each place it appears the following: “in
its corporate capacity, its capacity as conservator, or its capacity
as receiver (including in its capacity as the sole owner of a subsidi-
ary corporation of a depository institution under conservatorship
or receivership, which subsidiary has as its principal business the
ownership of real property)”.

SEC. 14. CHANGES AFFECTING BOTH RTC AND FDIC AFFORDABLE
HOUSING PROGRAMS.

(a) NOTICE TO CLEARINGHOUSES REGARDING PROPERTIES NOT
INCLUDED IN PROGRAMS.—
(1) RTC.—Section 21A(c) of the Federal Home Loan Bank
Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)) is amended by adding at the end
the following new paragraph:
“(16) NOTICE TO CLEARINGHOUSES REGARDING INELIGIBLE

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Within a reasonable period of time
after acquiring title to an ineligible residential property,
the Corporation shall, to the extent practicable, provi
written notice to clearinghouses.

“(B) CONTENT.—For ineligible se family properties,
such notice shall contain the same information about such
properties that the notice required under paragraph (2)A)
contains with —— to eligible single family properties.
For ineligible multifamily housing properties, such notice
shall contain the same information about such properties
that the notice required aaa perserepn (3A) contains
with respect to eligible multi y housing properties. For
ineligible condominium properties, such notice contain
the same information about such properties that the notice
required under paragraph (14XA) contains with respect
to eligible condominium properties.
107 STAT. 2392

PUBLIC LAW 108-204—DEC. 17, 1993

“(C) AVAILABILITY.—The clearinghouses shall make
such information available, upon request, to other public
agencies, other nonprofit organizations, ifying house-
holds, qualifying multifamily purchasers, and other pur-

“D) ies nat of this h, the

ONS.—For purposes is paragraph,
following definitions shall apply:

“(i) INELIGIBLE CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY.—The
term ‘ineligible condominium property’ means a con-
dominium unit, as such term is defined in section
604 of the Housing and Community Development Act
of 1980—

“(I) to which the Corporation acquires title
in its corporate capacity, its capacity as conserva-
tor, or its capacity as receiver (including its capac-
af as the sole owner of a subsidiary corporation
of a depository institution under conservatorship
or receivership, which subsidiary corporation has
as its principal business the ownership of real
property); ;

“(II) that has an appraised value that does
not exceed the applicable dollar amount limitation
for the property under or, ce (9XDXiiXID; and

“(ILD) that is not an eligible condominium prop-
erty.

“(ii) INELIGIBLE MULTIFAMILY HOUSING PROP-
ERTY.—The term ‘ineligible multifamily housing —
erty’ means a property consisting of more than 4 dwell-

uni

ts—

“(I) to which the Corporation acquires title
in its capacity as conservator (including its capac-
ity as the sole owner of a subsidiary corporation

a depository institution under conservatorship,
which subsidiary corporation has as its principal
business the ownership of real property);

“(II) that has an appraised value that does
not exceed, for such part of the property as may
be attributable to dwelling use (excluding exterior
land improvements), the dollar amount limitations
under Eps ira (9XEXiXID; and
_ “(IID that is not an eligible multifamily hous-
ing property.

“(iii) INELIGIBLE SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY.—The
term ‘ineligible single family property’ means a 1- to
4-family sosideane Cod ing a man home)—

“(I) to which the Corporation acquires title
in its corporate capacity, its capacity as conserva-
tor, or its capacity as receiver (including its capac-
ity as the sole owner of a subsidiary corporation
of a depository institution under conservatorship
or receivership, which subsidiary corporation has
as its principal business the ownership of real
oo"

“(Il) that has an appraised value that does
not exceed the applicable dollar amount limitation
for the property under paragraph (9\G\iiXII); and
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2393

“(III) that is not an eligible single family prop-

erty.

“(iv) INELIGIBLE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.—The term
aon tenet aon cag 0 gle a
e y properti multifamily housing
(2) C.—Section 40 of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act (12 U.S.C. 1831q) is amended by adding at the end the

following new subsection:
“(q) NOTICE TO CLEARINGHOUSES REGARDING INELIGIBLE PROP-

"«(1) IN oe te en ioaleible a ——- period . =~ after
acquiring title to an ineligible residential property, the Corpora-
len shell, to the extent practicable, srovkis written notice

to oe eee

“(2) CONTENT.—For ineligible single family properties, such
notice shall contain the same information about a properties
that the notice required under subsection (cX1) contains with
respect to eligible single family properties. For ineligible multi-
family housing properties, such notice shall contain the same
information t such properties that the notice required
seein —— teal cage 00 hc ie a aa te eligible multi-

y properties. For ine condominium prop-
erties, such notice shall contain the same information about
such properties that the notice required under subsection (11)
contains with respect to eligible condominium properties.

“(3) AVAILABILITY.— clearinghouses shall make such
information available, upon request, to other public agencies,

other nonprofit organizations, ifying households, qualifying
multifamily purchasers, and ner sartuneece, as appropriate.
“(4) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection, the fol-
lowing definitions shall apply:
~ eligitl ee = a rh Gy wah term
e condominium pro means any e e con-
dominium property to which the provisions of ae section
ome BPP y as a result of the limitations under subsection
“(B) INELIGIBLE MULTIFAMILY HOUSING PROPERTY.—The
term _— “ a housing crear —— any
eligible multifamily housing property to w rovi-
sions of this section do not a Be us & rabelt of the lenite-
tions under subsection (b\2\A).
naaeeaa — SINGLE ped daespiooigi Rg a
gible single roperty means any e e
family pro > te whan the’ crores ik i saat
eae opp y as a result of the limitations under subsection
is. “D) INELIGIBLE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY—The term
e residen property’ udes ineligible single
ily properties, ineligible multifamily housing properties,
and ineligible condominium properties.”.
(b) AFFORDABLE HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD.— 12 USC 1831q
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is hereby established the "*
Affordable Housing i Board (in this subsection referred
to as the “Advisory ”) to advise the Thrift Depositor
Protection Oversight Board and the Board of Directors of the
Federal Deposit ce Corporation on policies and pro-
107 STAT. 2394 PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

related to the provision of affordable housing, including
e 0 tion of the affordable programs.
) MEMBERSHIP.—The Advisory Board shall consist of—

(A) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;

(B) the Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the
Federal Deposit urance Corporation (or the Chair-
person’s suegenn)s who shall be a nonvoting member;

(C) the —— of the Thrift Depositor Protection
Oversight Board (or the Chairperson’s delegate), who shall
el Ye srogpecet ted by the Secre f H

persons appoin y tary of Housi

and Urban Development not later than the expiration of
the 90-day period beginning on the date of the enactment
of this Act, who represent the interests of individuals and
organizations involved in using the affordable housing pro-
grams (including nonprofit organizations, public agencies,
and for-profit organizations that purchase properties under
the affordable housing programs, izations that pro-
vide eg ne gan lg a e aa ag housing
programs, and organizations t represent the interest
of low- and moderate-income families); and

(E) 2 persons who are members of the National Hous-
ing Advisory Board pursuant to section 21A(d\2\BXii) of
the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (as in effect before the
effective date of the repeal under subsection (cX2)), who
~— be appointed by such Board before such effective

te

(3) TeRMs.—Each member shall be appointed for a term
of 4 years, except as provided in paragraphs (4) and (5).
(4) TERMS OF INITIAL APPOINTEES.—

(A) PERMANENT POSITIONS.—As designated by the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development at the time
of arpenement, of the members first appointed under para-
graph (2X{D)—

(i) 1 shall be appointed for a term of 1 year;
(ii) 1 shall be appointed for a term of 2 years;
"il 1 shall be appointed for a term of 3 years;
an
(iv) 1 shall be appointed for a term of 4 years.

(B) INTERIM MEMBERS.—The members of the Advisory

Board under paragraph (2XE) shall be appointed for a

single term of 4 years, which shall begin upon the earlier

of (i) the expiration of the oy Pe _ i on
, or (il

the date of the enactment of this e first
meeting of the Advisory Board.
(5) VACANCIES.—. member appointed to fill a vacancy

occurring before the expiration of the term for which the mem-
ber’s predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for
the remainder of that term. A member may serve after the
expiration of that member’s term until a successor has taken
office. A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the
manner in which the original appointment was made.

(6) MEETINGS.—

(A) TIMING AND LOCATION.—The Advisory Board shall
meet 4 times a year, or more frequently if requested by
the Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight Board or the
Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2395

poration. In each year, the Advisory Board shall conduct
such m at various locations in different regions of
the United States in which substantial residential property
assets of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or
the Resolution Trust tion are loca The first
meeting of the Advisory shall take place not later
than the expiration of the 90-day period beginning on the
date of the enactment of this Act.

(B) ApvicE.—The Advisory Board shall submit
information and advice resulting from each ae
such form as the Board considers areca. to the

Depositor Protection Oversight Board and the Board of
Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(7) ANNUAL REPORTS.—For —_ , the Advisory Board

shall submit a report containing its dings and recommenda-
tions to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban affairs
of the Senate and the Committee on Banking, Finance and
Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives, the Federal
Deposit Insurance ration, and the Resolution Trust Cor-
th sn oe ny 6- ang oy Sore ting “4 date
e expiration 0 month peri on
of the enactment of this Act.

(8) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this subsection, the term
“affordable ho programs” means the p under <<
tion 21A(c) of the Federal Home stan Bank and the
gram under section gh of the Federal Deposit Insurance

(9) SUNSET.—The Ad pened Board established under this
subsection shall terminate on September 30, 1998.

(c) TERMINATION OF NATIONAL HOUSING Apvisory BoaRD.—

(1) TERMINATION.—The National Housing Advisory Board 12 USC l144la
shall teraihete noes the eipteeeten ar tia 06-day pe Bank —

terminate upon expiration peri
ning on the date of the enactment of this Act.

(2) REPEAL.—Effective upon the expiration of the yi
referred to in paragra paragraph (1), par ph (2) of section 21A(d)
of the Federal Home Ret (12 U.S.C. 1441a(dX2))
is amended to read as follows:

“(2) [Reserved]”.

(d) PROVISION OF INFORMATION REGARDING SELLER FINANCING
TO MINORITY- AND WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESSES.—

(1) RTC.—Section 21A(cX6\A)ii) of the Federal Home Loan

Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(cX6XAXii)) is ye emeadet by —
n

at the end the following new sentences: “The inority and
perseneeny provide, to a eae Poole sx - and women-
businesses engaged housing and
. nonprofit ne nace tina prow of the control
ee _by 1 or more minority individuals, that are
affordable , information that is
cient rr inform such businesses an " organizations of how
availability and terms of under this clause;
information may be provided , by notices caebliched in in
periodicals cnn other sanicnions ’ that a, rovide

information to such businesses or
persons and organizations that vogulaaiy provide iad information
or services to such businesses or organizations. For purposes

of this clause, the terms ‘women-owned business’ and ‘minori
owned business’ have the meanings given such terms in s
107 STAT. 2396

PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DKEC. 17, 1993

section (r), and the term ‘minority’ has the meaning given
such term in section 1204(cX3) of the Financial Institutions
Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989.”. ”

(2) FDIC. ion 40(gX1\B) of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831q(gX1\B)) is amended by adding at
the end the following new sentences: “The Corporation
periodically provide, to a wide of minority- and women-
owned businesses engaged in oa affordable housing and
to nonprofit o izations, more than 50 percent of the control
of which is held by 1 or more minority individuals, that are
—e in providing affordable a information that is
sufficient to inform such businesses an gr oper ons of the
availability and terms of wer ae ne ag is sub ph;
such information may be provided di ly, by notices published
in periodicals and other publications t ne ——
information to such businesses or o izations, an ugh
persons and organizations that re ly provide information
or services to such businesses or organizations. For parporee
of this subparagraph, the terms ‘women-owned busin and
‘minority-owned business’ have the meanings given such terms
in section 21A(r) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, and
the term ‘minority’ has the meaning given such term in section
1204(cX3) of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and
Enforcement Act of 1989.”.

(e) AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT UNIFIED AFFORDABLE HOUSING

PROGRAM.—

Contracts.

(1) RTC.—Section 21A(c) of the Federal Home Loan Bank
Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)) is amended by adding after paragraph
(16) (as _— by subsection (a) of this section) the following
new ph:

17) UNIFIED AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 4 months after the
date of enactment of the Resolution Trust Corporation
Completion Act, the Corporation shall enter into an agree-
ment, as described in section 40(nX3) of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act, with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion that sets out a plan for the orderly unification of
the Corporation’s activities, authorities, and responsibilities
under this subsection with the authorities, activities, and
responsibilities of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion pursuant to section 40 of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ce A ee ee achieves an effective and
comprehensive affo: e housing program management
structure. The ent shall be entered into after con-
sultation with the Affordable ey Sar eey Board
under section 14(b) of the Resolution t Corporation
Completion Act.

B) AUTHORITY AND IMPLEMENTATION.—The Corpora-
tion shall have the authority to carry out the provisions
of the agreement entered into pursuant to subparagraph
(A) and shall implement such agreement as soon as prac-
ticable, but in no event later than 8 months after the
date of enactment of the Resolution Trust Corporation
Completion Act.

C) TRANSFER OF AUTHORITY.—Effective upon October
1, 1995, any remaining authority and responsibilities of
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2397

the Corporation under this subsection shall be carried out

by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.”.

(2) FDIC.—Section 40(n) of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act (12 U.S.C. 1831q(n)) is amended to read as follows:

“(n) UNIFIED AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAMS.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 4 months after the date
of enactment of the Resolution Trust Corporation Completion
Act, the tion shall enter into an t, as described
in paragraph (3), with the Resolution Corporation that
sets out a plan for the orderly unification of the Corporation’s
activities, authorities, and responsibilities under this section
with the authorities, activities, and responsibilities of the Reso-
lution Trust Corporation pursuant to section 21A(c) of the Fed-
eral Home Loan Bank in a manner that best achieves
an effective and comprehensive affordable housing program
management structure. The agreement shall be entered into
after consultation with the Affordable Housing Advi Board
—e 14(b) of the Resolution Trust Corporation ple-

on

“(2) AUTHORITY AND IMPLEMENTATION.—The Corporation
shall _ ae ey to carry out the a ger the
agreement ente into pursuant to paragra and shall
implement such ment as soon as ractleable but in no
event later than 8 months after the date of enactment of
the Resolution Trust Corporation Completion Act.

“(3) TERMS OF AGREEMENT.—The agreement required under
paragraph (1) shall provide a plan for—

“(A) a program unifying all activities and nsibil-
ities of the Corporation the Resolution Trust Corpora-
ee Gae See ee SS Ee ee bee, Sek woke
into consideration substantial experience of the Resolu-
tion = . ration regarding—

i er financing;
“(ii) technical assistance;
“(iii) marketing skills and relationships with public
and nonprofit entities; and
“(iv) staff resources;
“(B) the elimination of duplicative and unnecessary
NG) cas maraaetinat cire cach of te wailied
t structure i program;

“D)a timetable for the unification; and

“(E) a methodology to determine the extent to which
the provisions of this section shall be effective, in accord-
ance with the limitations under subsection (b\2).

“(4) TRANSFER TO FDIC.—Beginning not later than October
1, 1995, the Corporation shall carry out any remaining author-
ity and responsibilities of the Resolution Trust Corporation,
ae ae a ee eee ee Lee
(f) LIABILITY PROVISIONS.—

(1) RTC.—Section 21A(cX11) of the Federal Home Loan
Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441la(cX11)) is amended by adding at

the end the following new a ye
“(D) CORPORATION.— pgs tt were shall not be lia-
ble to any depositor, creditor, or Ider of insured
7 institution for which the Corporation been
appointed receiver or conservator, or of any subsidiary
107 STAT. 2398

PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

corporation of a depository institution under
conservatorship or receivership, or any claimant against
such an institution or subsidiary, because the pos maT
of assets of the institution or the subsidiary under this
subsection affects the amount of return from the assets.”.
(2) FDIC.—Section 40(m)4) of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831q(m\4)) is amended to as follows:
“(4) CORPORATION.—The Corporation shall not be liable
to any depositor, creditor, or older of any insured deposi-
tory institution for which the Corporation has been appointed
receiver or conservator, or of any subsidiary corporation of
a depository institution under receivership or conservatorship,
or ne Memory — such institution or subsidiary, because
the disposition of assets of the institution or the subsidiary
under this section affects the amount of return from the
assets.”.

SEC. 15. RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL FOR TENANTS TO PURCHASE SIN-

GLE FAMILY PROPERTY.
(a) RTC.—Section 21A(b) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act

(12 U.S.C. 1441a(b)) is amended by adding after paragraph (14)
(as ee vs section (4) of this Act) the following new paragraph:

PURCHASE RIGHTS OF TENANTS. —

“(A) NOTICE.—Except as provided in subparagraph (C),
the Corporation may make available for sale a 1- to 4-
family residence (including a manufactured home) to which
the Corporation acquires title only after the Corporation
has provided the household residing in the property notice
(in writing and mailed to the property) of the availability
of such property and the preference afforded such house-

hold under subparagraph (B).
“(B) PREFERENCE.—In selling such a property the Cor-
ration shall give preference to any bona fide offer made

y the household residing in the property, if—

“(i) such offer is substantially similar in amount
to other offers made within such period (or expected
by the Comgorsisen to be made within such period);

“(ii) such offer is made during the period beginni
upon the Corporation making such F arkcaeld available
and of a reasonable duration, as determined by the
Comporation based on the normal period for sale of

roperties; and
iii) the household making the offer complies with
any other requirements applicable to p rs of
such property, including any downpayment and credit
7 gc
“(C) EXCEPTIONS.—Subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall
not apply to—

“(i) any residence transferred in connection with
the transfer of substantially all of the assets of an
insured depository institution for which the Corpora-
tion a been a pamee pag th or rasan ails

ii) any eligible single family property (as s
term is defined in a bantton (cX9)); or

“(iii) any residence for which the household occupy-
ing the residence was the mortgagor under a mortgage
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2399

on such residence and to which the Corporation
acquired title pursuant to default on such mortgage.”.

(b) FDIC.—Section 11 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
(12 U.S.C. 1821) is amended by adding at the end the following
new :

“(u) PURCHASE RIGHTS OF TENANTS.—

“(1) NoTiceE.—Except as provided in paragraph (3), the
Corporation may make available for sale a 1- to 4-family resi-
dence (including a manufactured home) to which the ra-
tion acquires title only after the Corporation has provi the
household residing in the notice (in writing and mailed
to the property) of the availability of such pro and the
preference afforded such household under paragraph (2).

“(2) PREFERENCE.—In selling such a Foes: the Corpora-
tion shall give preference to any bona fide offer made by the
household residing in the property, if—

“(A) such offer is substantially similar in amount to
other offers made within such period (or expected by the
Corporation to be made within such period);

“(B) such offer is made during the period inni
upon the Co cetion making See Deeeey * ilable an
of a reasonable duration, as determined by the Corporation
based on the normal period for sale of such properties;

and

“(C) the household making the offer complies with
any other requirements applicable to purchasers of such
property, including any downpayment and credit require-
ments.
“(3) EXCEPTIONS.—Paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not apply

as
“(A) any residence transferred in connection with the
transfer of substantially all of the assets of an insured
depository institution for which the Corporation has been
wi oe eh ae
any. eligible sing prope as 8 rm
is defined in subsection (cX9)); or
“(C) any residence for which the household occupying
the residence was the vey ey J under a mo on
such residence and to which Corporation autel title
pursuant to default on such mortgage.”.

SEC, 16. PREFERENCE FOR SALES OF REAL PROPERTY FOR USE FOR
HOMELESS FAMILIES.

(a) RTC.—Section 21A(b) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act

(12 U.S.C. 1441a(b)) is amended by eg | after paragraph (15)
(as added by section 15(a) of this Act) the following new paragraph:
1 gee , in selling any property (other

than eligib secidontial property and eligible condominium
property, as such terms are defined in subsection (cX9)) to
which the Corporation uires title, the Corporation shall
give preference, among offers to purchase the property that
will result in the same net veumak Value ‘ceanende to any
— that would gr er = property to be used, during

e remaining useful life perty, to provi ousing

or shelter for homeless persons ta oats term is defined in
107 STAT. 2400 PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

section 103 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance

Act) or homeless families.”.

(b) FDIC.—Section 11 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
(12 U.S.C. 1821) is amended sen after subsection (u) (as
added by section 15(b) of this Act) the following new subsection:

“(v) CE FOR SALES FOR HOMELESS FAMILIES.—Subject
to subsection (u), in se rd —_ fo (other than eligible
residential property and eligible minium property, as
terms are defined in section 40(p)) to which the Corporation acquires
title, the Corporation shall give preference among offers to purchase
the property that will result in the same net present value proceeds,
to any offer et woe Seg eee the property to ot - during

e remaining ife o property, to provi ousing or
shelter for homeless persons (as Ai term is defined in section
103 of the Stewart B. inney Homeless Assistance Act) or home-
less families.”.

SEC. 17. PREFERENCES FOR SALES OF COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES TO
PUBLIC AGENCIES AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
FOR USE IN CARRYING OUT PROGRAMS FOR AFFORD-
ABLE HOUSING.

(a) RTC.—Section 21A(b) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act
(12 U.S.C. 1441a(b)) is amended by adding after paragraph (16)
(as added bed section 16(a) of this Act) the following new paragraph:

“(17) PREFERENCES FOR SALES OF CERTAIN COMMERCIAL

REAL PROPERTIES.—

“(A) AUTHORITY.—In selling any eligible commercial
real properties of the Corporation, the Corporation shall
ive preference, among offers to purchase the property
t will result in the same net present value proceeds,

to any offer—

“(i) that is made by a public agency or nonprofit
organization; and

“(ii) under which the purchaser agrees that the
pores shall be used, during the remaining useful
ife of the property, for offices and administrative pur-
poses of urchaser to carry out a pro to
acquire residential ek yc to provide (I)
homeownership and rental housing opportunities for
very-low-, low-, and moderate-income families, or (II)
housing or shelter for homeless ns (as such term
is defined in section 103 of the Stewart B. McKinney
Homeless Assistance Act) or homeless families.

“(B) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this paragraph, the
prenatal gs shall apply:

i) ELIGIBLE COMMERCIAL REAL PROPERTY.—The
term ‘eligible commercial real property’ means any
property (I) to which the Corporation acquires title,
and (II) that the Corporation, in the discretion of the
Corporation, determines is suitable for use for the loca-
tion of offices or other administrative functions
involved with carrying out a program referred to in
subparagraph (A\ii).

“(ii) NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION AND PUBLIC
AGENCY.—The terms ‘nonprofit organization’ and ‘pub-
ad dl have the same meanings as in subsection
cX9).”.
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2401

(b) FDIC.—Section 11 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
(12 U.S.C. 1821) is amended g rg wi adding after subsection (v) (as
added by section 16(b) of this Act) the following new subsection:

“(w) PREFERENCES FOR SALES OF CERTAIN COMMERCIAL REAL

PERTIES.—

“(1) AUTHORITY.—In ~~ eligible commercial real
properties of the Corporation. oe atin shall give pref-
erence, among offers to purchase the property that will result
in the same net present value proceeds, to any offer—
that is made by a public agency or nonprofit
gr yee and
under which the purchaser agrees that the oe
- shal be used, during the remaining useful
, for offices and administrative purposes 7
ne r to carry out a program to residential
properties to provide (i) homeownership rental housing
opportunities for very-low-, low-, and ses sagem
, or (ii) housing or shelter for homeless
(as such term is defined in section 103 of the iewart
= McKinney Homeless Assistance Act) or homeless fami-
es.
“(2) DEFINITIONS. lee gone of this subsection, the fol-
lowing definitions shall ap
Bo ELIGIBLE CONMERCIAL as PROPERTY.—The dag!
‘eligible commercial property’ means pe i
to which the Corporation acquires title e, and hate that the
Corporation, in discretion of the Co ration, deter-
mines is suitable for use for the location of offices or other
administrative functions involved with carrying out a pro-
gram referred to in paragraph (1B).
“(B) NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION AND PUBLIC AGENCY.—
The terms ‘nonprofit organization’ and ‘public agency’ have
the same meanings as in section 40(p).”.

SEC. 18, FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS HOUSING OPPORTUNITY HOT-
LINE PROGRAM.

The Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1422 et seq.)
is amended by inserting after section 26 the following new section:

“SEC. 27. HOUSING OPPORTUNITY HOTLINE PROGRAM. 12 USC 1447.

“(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Federal Home Loan Banks shall,
individually or (at the discretion of the Federal Housing Finance
Board) on a consolidated basis, establish and oe a service
Heotine OF seenity Matlin the determination of Board) Soon

0 portunity Ho’ established in October
by the Liuet Hees Lees Beaks Dallas.

“(b) PURPOSE.—The service or services established under this
section shall provide information regarding the a, =F ot
chase of si family at gh se de am pgs A
agencies ane located 1 ti Federal Home Loan B district
for such Bank. Such agencies shall provide to the Federal Home
Loan Banks the information necessary to provide such service or
services.

“(c) REQUIRED INFORMATION.—The service or services estab-
lished under this section shall use the ee | obtained from
Federal to provide information b eingle family } size, location,

price, and other carectatlaties of such g-
the eligibility requirements for purchasers i ees
107 STAT. 2402 PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

terms for such sales, and the terms of any available seller par Bes
and shall identify properties that are affordable to low- and mod-
erate-income families.

“(d) TOLL-FREE TELEPHONE NUMBER.—The service or services
established under this section shall establish and maintain a toll-
free telephone line for providing the information made available
under the service or services.

“(e) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:

“(1) FEDERAL AGENCIES.—The term ‘Federal agencies’
means—

“(A) the Farmers Home Administration, the Federal
National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation, the General Services Administra-
tion, the Department of Housing and Urban Development,
and the Department of Veterans Affairs;

“(B) the Resolution Trust Corporation, subject to the
discretion of such Corporation; and

“(C) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, subject
to the discretion of such Corporation.

“(2) SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY.—The term ‘single family
pore means a 1- to 4-family residence, including a manufac-
me.”.

SEC. 19. CONFLICT OF INTEREST PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE
FDIC,

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 12 of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act (12 U.S.C. 1822) is amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:

“(f) CONFLICT OF INTEREST.—

“(1) APPLICABILITY OF OTHER PROVISIONS.—

“(A) CLARIFICATION OF STATUS OF CORPORATION.—The
Corporation is, and has been since its creation, an agency
for p of title 18, United States Code.

) TREATMENT OF CONTRACTORS.—Any individual
who, pursuant to a contract or = arrangement,
performs functions or activities of Corporation, under
the direct supervision of an officer or employee of the
Corporation, shall be deemed to be an ro of the
Corporation for purposes of title 18, United States Code
and this Act. Any individual who, pursuant to a contract
or any other agreement, acts for or on behalf of the Corpora-
tion, and who is not otherwise treated as an officer or
a of the United States for purposes of title 18
United States Code, shall be deemed to be a public offici
for purposes of section 201 of title 18, United States Code.
“(2) REGULATIONS CONCERNING EMPLOYEE CONDUCT.—The

officers and employees of the Corporation and those individuals

raph CHAE, 3 be eumplaens of tie Cosnorttion ir pes ooasa
gra " employees rporation for purposes
of title 18, United States Code, shall be ject to the ethics
and conflict of interest rules and regulaticns issued by the

Office of Government Ethics, including those concerning

employee conduct, financial disclosure, and post-employment

activities. The Board of Directors may prescribe requlstions
that supplement such rules and regulations only with the
concurrence of that Office.
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2403

“(3) REGULATIONS CONCERNING INDEPENDENT CONTRAC-
TORS.—The Board of Directors, with the concurrence of the
Office of Government Ethics, shall prescribe regulations
applicable to those independent contractors who are not
deemed, under see ge (1XB), to be employees of the Cor-
poration for purposes of title 18, United States Code, governi
conflicts of interest, ethical responsibilities, and the use o
confidential information consistent with the goals and purposes
of titles 18 and 41, United States Code. Any such regulations
shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other statute
or regulation which may apply to the conduct of such independ-
ent contractors.

“(4) DISAPPROVAL OF CONTRACTORS.—

Umeda

i tions ishi ures for ensuring that

any individual who is performing, directly or indirectly,

any function or service on behalf of the Corporation meets

minimum standards of competence, experience, integrity,

and fitness.

“(B) PROHIBITION FROM SERVICE ON BEHALF OF COR-

PORATION.—The procedures established under subpara-

graph (A) shall provide that the Corporation shall prohibit

any person who does not meet the minimum standards

of competence, experience, integrity, and fitness from—

is “(i) entering into any contract with the Corpora-
on; or
“(ii) becoming employed by the Corporation or
otherwise performing any service for or on behalf of
the Corporation.
“(C) INFORMATION REQUIRED = BE eT geal
procedures established under subparagra shall

require tak aly Gir GUAMMNA| 6s ills Comsecaiion by

any person under this section and any employment applica-

= submitted to the Corporation by any person shall

include—

“(i) a list and description of any instance during
the 5 rae eee the submission of such applica-
tion in whi ne ee or a company under such
person’s control ulted on a material obligation to
an insured depository institution; and

“(ii) such other information as the Board may pre-
scribe by regulation.

“(D) SUBSEQUENT SUBMISSIONS.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—No offer submitted to the Cor-
poration may be accepted unless the offeror agrees
that no mn will be employed, di or indirectly,

by the offeror under any contract with Corporation

sub ten ne 4 rossi “ p= ome :
paragra’ with res any person
is submi to the Corporation; and
“(II) the Corporation does not disapprove of
the direct or indirect employment of person.
“(ii) FINALITY OF DETERMINATION.—Any determina-
tion made by the Corporation pursuant to this para-
graph shall be in the Corporation’s sole discretion and
not be subject to review.
107 STAT. 2404 PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DKEC. 17, 1993

“(E) mfr — IN alee CASES.—The
standards established under subparagra shall require
the Corporation to prohibit any person we has—

“(i) been convicted of any felony;

“(ii) been removed from, or prohibited from partici-
pating in the affairs wy ee insured depository institu-
tion pursuant to an enforcement action by any
appropriate Federal Seniing agency;

“(iii) demonstrated a pattern or practice of defalca-
tion regarding obligations to insured depository institu-
tions; or

“(iv) caused a substantial loss to Federal deposit
insurance funds;

from performing any service on behalf of the Corporation.

“(5) TION OF CONTRACTS.—The Corporation may
rescind any contract with a person who—

“(A) fails to disclose a material fact to the Corporation;

“(B) would be prohibited under ph (6) from
providing services to, receiving fees from, or contracting
with the Corporation; or

“(C) has been subject to a final enforcement action
by any Federal banking agency.

Regulations. 6) PRIORITY OF FDIC RULES.—To the extent that the regu-
lations under this subsection conflict with rules of other agen-
cies or Government corporations, officers, directors, employees,
and independent contractors of the Corporation who are
subject to the conflict of interest or ethical rules of another
agency or Government corporation, shall be governed by the
pn Serr prescribed by the Board of Directors under this
su ion when acting for or on behalf of the Corporation.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the rules of the Cor-
poration shall not priority over the ethics and conflict
of interest rules and regulations promulgated by the Office
oa Government Ethics unless specifically authorized by that

ce.”.

(b) AMENDMENTS TO DEFINITIONS.—

(1) FEDERAL BANKING AGENCY.—Section 3(z) of the Federal
Depot Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(z)) is amended to read
as follows:

“(z) FEDERAL BANKING AGENCY.—The term ‘Federal packing
agency means the Comptroller of the Currency, the Director o
the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-

tion.”.

(2) COMPANY.—Section 3(w) of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(w)) is amended by eating at the
end the following new ph:

“(7) COMPANY.—The term ‘com has the same meaning
as in section 2(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.”.

12 USC 1822 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made by subsection (a)
note: shall apply after the end of the 6-month period beginning on the
date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 20. RESTRICTIONS ON SALES OF ASSETS TO CERTAIN PERSONS.

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 11(p) of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(p)) is amended—
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2405

(1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as paragraphs
(2) and (3); and

(2) by inserting before paragraph (2), as redesignated, the

ing new paragraph:

“(1) PERSONS WHO ENGAGED IN IMPROPER CONDUCT WITH, Regulations.
OR CAUSED LOSSES TO, DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS.—The Cor-
poration shall ibe regulations which, at a minimum, shall
prohibit the of assets of a failed institution by the Corpora-
tion to—

“(A) any person who—

“(i) has defaulted, or was a member of a partner-
- — = Re yorg or directo - ties a corpeenine that

on 1 or more obligations te
amount of which exceed $1,000,000, to ae ated
institution;

“(ii) has been found to have in fraudulent
activity in connection with any obligation referred to
in clause (i); and

“(iii) proposes to purchase any such asset in whole
or in part through the use of the proceeds of a loan
or advance of credit from the Corporation or from
any institution for which the Corporation has been
appointed as conservator or receiver;

“(B) any person who participated, as an officer or direc-
tor of such failed institution or of any affiliate of such
institution, in a material way in transactions that resulted
in a substantial loss to such failed institution;

“(C) any person who has been removed from, or prohib-
ited from participating in the affairs of, such failed institu-
tion pursuant to any enforcement action by an appro-
priate Federal banking agency; or

“(D) an rson who has demonstrated a pattern or
practice of defalcation regarding obligations to such failed
institution.”.

(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 11(p)
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(p)) is

ame
(1) in paragraph (2) (as redesignated by subsection (a))—
(A) by striking “individual” and inserting “person”; and
ged striking “paragraph (2)” and inserting “para-
grap >
(2) in paragraph (3) (as redesignated by subsection (a))—
(A) by striking “individual” each place such term

appears and inserting “person”; and

(B) by striking Scamnacueh (1)” and inserting “Para-
c— (1) and (2)”;
3) by adding at the end the following new ph:

“(4) DEFINITION OF DEFAULT.—For purposes of this sub-
section, the term ‘default’ means a failure to comply with the
terms of a loan or other obligation to such an extent that
the property securing the obligation is foreclosed upon.”; and

(4) by striking the heading and inserting the following
new °
“(p) CERTAIN SALES OF ASSETS PROHIBITED.—”.
107 STAT. 2406 PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

SEC, 21. WHISTLE BLOWER PROTECTION.

(a) AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE ACT.—
Section 33(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1831j(a)) is amended—

(1) in ph (1}—

) by striking “regarding” and all that follows through
the end of the sentence and inserting the following:

“(A) a possible violation of any law or regulation; or

“(B) gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds,
an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger
to public health or safety;

by the depository institution or any director, officer, or employee

of the institution.”; and

(B) by adding at the end the following:

“(f) BURDENS OF Proor.—The legal burdens of proof that prevail
under subchapter III of chapter 12 of title 5, United States Code,
— govern adjudication of protected activities under this section.”;
an

(2) in paragraph (2)—

(A) by enka Reserve bank” and inserting
“Federal reserve or any person who is penn’,
directly or indirectly, any function or service on be
of the Corporation”;

(B) by striking “any possible violation of any law or
regulation by” and inserting “any possible violation of any
law or regulation, mismanagement, a gross waste
of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific
danger to public health or oq by”;

(C) in subparagraph (B), by striking “or” at the end;

(D) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at
the end and inserting “; or”; and

(E) by adding at the end the following new subpara-

ph:
“(D) the person, or any officer or employee of the per-
son, who employs such employee.”.
(b) AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK ACT.—
Section 21A(q) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C.

1441a(q)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking i and all that
follows through the end of the sentence and inserting the
following: “regarding—

“(A) a possible violation of any law or regulation; or
“(B) gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds,
an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger
to public health or safety;
by the Corporation, the Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight
Board, or such person or any director, officer, or employee
of the Corporation, the Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight
Board, or the person.”; and

(2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:

“(5) BURDENS OF PROOF.—The legal burdens of proof that
revail under subchapter III of chapter 12 of title 5, United
tates Code, shall govern adjudication of protected activities

under this subsection.”.
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2407

SEC. 22. FDIC ASSET DISPOSITION DIVISION.

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1 of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act (12 U.S.C. 1811) is amended—
(1) by striking “Sec. 1. There is hereby created” and insert-
ing the following:
“SECTION 1. FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION.

- hel = agp agate OF CORPORATION.—There is hereby estab-
shed”; an
(2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
ASSET DISPOSITION DIVISION.—
“(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Corporation shall have a sepa-
rate division of asset disposition.
“(2) MANAGEMENT.—The division of asset disposition shall
have an administrator who shall be appointed by the Board
of Directors.
dionin aut a t all of the ean f'the
position carry out e ty) e
Corporation under this Act relating to the liquidation of insured
depository institutions and the disposition of assets of such
institutions.”
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by subsection 12 USC 1811
(a) shall become effective on July 1, 1995. note.

SEC. 28. PRESIDENTIALLY APPOINTED INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR
FDIC.

(a) AMENDMENTS TO THE INSPECTOR GENERAL ACT OF 1978.—
The Inspector General | Act ct of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended—
(1) in section 11—

(A) in paragraph (1), by striking “the chief executive
officer of the Resolution Trust Corporation;” and inserting
“the chief executive officer of — Resolution Trust Corpora-
tion; and the Chairperson of the Federal Deposit Insurance
rnin para h (2), “the Federal Deposit

in
: Cocporetion,” thor “Hess ution Trust Corners:
on,

(2) te inserting after section 8B the following new section:

“SEC. 8C. SPECIAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT
INSURANCE CORPORATION.

“(a) DELEGATION.—The Chairperson of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation may se ar _ authority specified in the
second sentence of section 3(a) to the Vice Chairperson of the
Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
pr pt, not — such authority to any other officer or employee
0 ration

“(b) —Notwi cpascpey hs Ne and oo of
section 6(a), the Inspector General of ers De
ration may select, appoint, and em age tiga

employees as may be necessary for out the functions,
powers, and duties of the Office of Inspector and to obtain
the temporary or intermittent services of experts or consultants
or an organization of or Ps ajesessog subject to the
pir a laws and tions such selections,

pointments, and employment, cago the ‘no ctaning of such services,
wikia the Federal Deposit Insurance Case
107 STAT. 2408 PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DKEC. 17, 1993

(3) by redesignating sections 8C through 8F as sections
8? a) Ie eect ‘BE x2 ire ted, by striking “th
in on a as y 8 e
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporatio: J
(b) PosITion AT LEVEL IV OF THE SCHEDULE.—
Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by eertng
a “Inspector General, Smal] Business Administration.” the fol-
0 :
r General, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.”.
(c) een PERIOD.—

(1) CURRENT  ppbatre Mien as otherwise provided by
law, the individual serving as the Inspector General of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation before the date of enact-
ment of this Act may continue to serve in such position until
the earlier of—

(A) the date on which the President appoints a succes-
os anion section 3(a) of the Inspector General Act of
;or
(B) the date which is 6 months after the date of enact-
yi oe: . F f h (1), th
EFINITION.—For purposes of paragra , the term
“successor” may include the individual holding the ition
of Inspector General of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion on or after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC, 24. DEPUTY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.

Section 21A(bX8) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
U.S.C. 1441a(bX8)) is amended by adding at the end the following

new wubparag™s hs:
S Darury CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.—
“(i) IN GENERAL.—There is hereby established the
position of deputy chief executive officer of the Corpora-

tion.
“(ii) APPOINTMENT.—The deputy chief executive
officer of the Corporation shall—
Thrift Deposttor Protection Oversight Board, with
i on wi
~ velamemandation of the chief executive officer;
an
“(II) be an employee of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation in accordance with subpara-

h (BXi).
Riad DuTIEs.—The deputy chief executive officer
shall perform such duties as chief executive officer

may require.

“(F) ACTING CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.—In the event

of a vacancy in the position of chief executive officer or

during the absence or disability of the chief executive offi-

cer, deputy chief executive officer shall perform the

duties of the position as the acting chief executive officer.”.

SEC. 25. DUE PROCESS PROTECTIONS RELATING TO ATTACHMENT OF
ASSETS.

Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1818) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (iX4\(B) and inserting the follow-
ing new sub ph:
“(B) STANDARD.—

5 USC app. 3
note.
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2409

civil P SHOWING. pone bog the ome Rules of
Procedure shall a with respect roceed-
ing under po ec. (A) without ann to the
requirement of such rule that the applicant show that
port injury, loss, or Piscpite is irreparable and imme-
“(i) — i pms gy 6a in the case of any
State court, the court determines that
rules of civil procedure available under the laws of
such State provide substantially similar protections
a an Sath pet sc se sy malyecwatinyyge wgent
sought under sub aes ayg pc the relief
t un

the laws of such Seats “end

(2) in subset on (b), by adding at the end the following

new
470) STANDARD FOR CERTAIN ORDERS.—No authority under
this ion or subsection (c) to prohibit any institution-
spating, party from oe , transferring, removing, ord
ec ne any funde, asaets, or other rope!
exercised unless the appropriate Federal
agency Bragg the standards of R of the Federal Rules
Civil Procedure, without to the aement of such
Py bomen be < pum ral t the injury, loss, or damage
is irreparable
SEC. 26. GAO STUDIES REGARDING FEDERAL REAL PROPERTY DIS-
POSITION.

(a) RTC AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM.—

(1) Srupy.—The Comptroller General of the United States
shall conduct a study of the program carried out by the Resolu-
tion Trust Corporation pursuant to section 21A(c) of the Federal
Home Loan Bank Act to determine the effectiveness of such
yi 08% in providing affordable homeownership and rental

ee low-, and moderate-income families. The
shall examine the procedures used under the

characteristics and numbers of purchasers
and the amount of and reasons for incurred by
the Resolution Trust Corporation in ber Reg properties under

the program.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 6 months after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit
a report to the Congress on the results of the study required
under paragraph (1), which shall describe Bg under
the study and contain any recommendations of the Comptroller
General for improving the effectiveness of such program.
(b) SINGLE AGENCY FOR REAL PROPERTY DISPOSITION.— 12 USC 1821
(1) Stupy.—The Comptroller General of the United States »°‘-
seesiat ausniinian to determin the apace Mapeatin be
ness a agency res or
gi 6 of real property owned or held
> = t of Housing and Urban Development, the
armers Home Adentaietretion of the Department of Agri-
culture, the Federal Deposit Insurance ration, and the
Resolution Trust Corporation. The study examine the
107 STAT. 2410 PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DKEC. 17, 1993

ro one aa ition procedures of such agencies and cor-
mycoides — sie feasibility of ‘consolidating such proce proce-

dures uch single agency, and determine

cio Sak Panetta Gamay koe aap euch adie aguney te

efficiently carry out such disposition activities.

(2) RT.—Not later than 12 months after the date of
asupaet $1 tals Camps ta: ibn aiscly secoli wator peregeh
a repo ngress on 8 under paragrap
(1), which shall describe any fades under the study and
contain any recommendations of the Comptroller General for
the eutablisheaant of such single agency.

SEC. 27, EXTENSION OF RTC POWER TO BE APPOINTED AS CONSERVA-
TOR OR RECEIVER.

(a) EXTENSION OF Duty To BE APPOINTED AS CONSERVATOR
See cae 21A(b) of the Federal Home Loan Bank
in paragra ii), by s r 1,

ee smich ‘da iste as ts dotornined y the Chairperson
of the Depositor Protection Oversight Board, but not

ot than January 1, 1995, and not later than July 1, 1995”;

an

(2) in paragraph (6), by striking “October 1, 1993” each
wre gms cir ng ects yma. “such date as is deter-
mined by Chairperson of the Thrift Depositor Protection

Oversight Board under paragraph (3XA\ii)”.

(b) APPOINTMENT OF A RECEIVER BY THE DIRECTOR OF THE
OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION. ection 11(cX6\(B) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(cX6\B)) is amended—

(1) in clause (i), by striking “October 1, 1993” and inse
“such date ag is determined by the Chairperson of the

Depositor Protection Oversight under section

2 gg of the Federal Home Lon Ba Bank Act”;

(2) in clauses (ii) and <a by wos nth “after a ag

30, 1993” each place such term ap
or after the date determined by the Chairp rage
Depositor Protection Oversight under section

2 X 3X AXii) of the Federal Home Loan Bak Act”; and
(3) in clause (ii), by striking “on or before” and inserting
“before”.
12 USC 1827 SEC, 28. FINAL REPORTS ON RTC AND SAIF FUNDING.
a (a) IN GENERAL.—

(1) RTC REPORT.—The n of the Thrift Depositor
Protection Oversight agit prepare and submit to _
Committee on Banking, H and Urban Affairs o

Senate and tbe Cochnites on ga Finance and Uiban
Affairs of the House of Seavediatativer a final report contain-
ing a detailed description of the rare for which the funds
made available to the Resolution Corporation under this
Act were used.

(2) SAIF REPORT.—The Chairperson of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Src a shall ga and submit to the Commit-

tee on Banking, Ho rban Affairs of the Senate
and the Committee on ae ee ee
of the House of Representatives a final re containing a

detailed description of the purposes for which the funds made
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2411

available to the Savings Association Insurance Fund under

this Act were used.

(b) TIME FOR SUBMISSION.—The reports described in subsection
(a) shall be transmitted—

C1) nk taken Sen 45 Gaze ser the Baal iture of
funds oa under this Act by the Resolution Trust
ratio:

hs mdr Liter. then. 46 digs after the final expenditure of
funds authorized to be provided under this Act by the Savings
Association Insurance d.

SEC. 29. GENERAL COUNSEL OF THE RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORA-
TION.

Section 21A(bX8) of the Federal Frome, Le Loan Bank Act (12
U.S.C. i is amended by adding after subparagraph wt

(as added by section 24 of this Act) the following new sub
“(G) GENERAL COUNSEL.—There is estab Bee Establishment.
General Counsel of the Corporation. The chief

executive officer, with the concurrence of the
of the Thrift Depositor Protection t may

= Federal Deposit ine counsel, who shall an ree
with subparagraph ( BM The The general coun eal chet aatke shall ‘orm
such duties as Phe ent chief executive officer may cenive”

SEC. 30. AUTHORITY TO EXECUTE CONTRACTS.

Section 21A of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C.
1441a) is amended by adding after subsection (x) (as added by
section 5 of this Act) the following new subsection:

“(y) AUTHORITY TO EXECUTE CONTRACTS.—

“(1) AUTHORIZED PERSONS.—A person may execute a con-
tract on behalf of the Corporation for the provision of goods
sae oe

 person—
“(i) is a warranted contracting officer b speated

by the Corporation, or is a amenames sone of a savings

association under the co p of the Corpora-
tion; and

“(ii) provides tue riate certification or other
identification, as td the Corporation in accord-
ance with penenes
“(B) the notice described in paragraph (4) is included

“(C) that person has h pupeoneieds authority to execute
the contract on behalf of Corporation in accordance
—_ the —_ by the Ccawaten | in accordance
wi
“(2) ‘ATION OF IDENTIFICATION.—Prior to executing

any contract described in paragraph (1) with rson, &

warranted contracting officer or managing agent s present

to that person—
“(A) a valid certificate of pe gong oy 4 (or such other
identification as may be required by the Corporation) that
is signed by the acetates officer of the Corporation;

or
“(B) a copy of such certificate, authenticated by the
Corporation.
107 STAT. 2412

Federal

os «-rboer
publication.

Federal

ese reer
publication.

PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

“(3) TREATMENT OF UNAUTHORIZED CONTRACTS.—A contract
described in paragraph (1) that fails to meet the requirements
of this section—

“(A) shall be null and void; and
“(B) shall not be enforced against the Corporation or
its ts by any court.

“(4) INCLUSION OF NOTICE IN CONTRACT TERMS.—Each writ-
ten contract described in paragraph (1) shall contain a clear
and conspicuous statement (in boldface type) in immediate
proximity to the space reserved for the signatures of the
contracting parties as follows:

“‘Only warranted contracting officers appointed by the
Resolution Trust Corporation or managing agents of associa-
tions under the conservatorship of the Resolution Trust Cor-
poration have the authority to execute contracts on behalf
of the Resolution Trust Corporation. Such persons have certain
limits on their contracting authority. The nature and extent
of ooh contracting authority levels are published in the Federal

“‘A warranted contracting officer or a managing agent must
present identification in the form of a signed certificate of
appointment (or an authenticated copy of such certificate) or
other identification, as sy toe A e Corporation, prior to

on

executing any contract of the Resolution Trust Cor-
poration.

“Any contract that is not executed by a warranted contract-
ing officer or the ing agent of a savings association

under the conservatorship of the Resolution Trust Corporation,
acting in conformity with his or her contracting authority,
shall be null and void, and will not be enforceable by any
court.’.

“(5) NOTICE OF REQUIREMENTS.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Corporation
shall publish notice in the Federal Register of—

“(A) the requirements for appointment by the Corpora-
tion as a warranted contracting officer; and

“(B) the nature and extent of the contracting authority
to be exercised by any warranted contracting officer or
managing agent.
“(6) EXCEPTION.—This section does not apply to—

“(A) any contract between the Corporation and any
other person governing the purchase or assumption by
that person of—

“(i) the ceria of a savings association under
the conservatorship of the Corporation; or

“(ii) the assets or liabilities of a savings association
under the conservatorship or receivership of the Cor-

ration; or
CB) any contract executed by the Ins r General

of the Corporation (or any desi thereof) for the provi-
sion of goods or services to Office of the Inspector
General of the Corporation.

“(7) EXECUTION OF CONTRACTS.—For purposes of this sub-
section, the execution of a contract includes all modifications
to such contract.

“(8) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The requirements of this subsection
shall apply to all contracts described in paragraph (1) executed
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2413

on or after the date which is 45 days after the date of enactment
of this subsection.”.
SEC. 31. RTC CONTRACTING.

modification
for or services exceeding $100,000 in value unless the
person executing the contract or modification states in writing

“(A) the contract or modification is for a fixed price,
the person has received a written cost estimate for the
contract or modification, or a cost estimate cannot be
obtained as a practical matter with an explanation of why
such a cost estimate cannot be as a practical
matter;

“(B) the person has received the written statement
described in paragraph (2); and

“(C) the person is satisfied that the contract or modi-
fication to be executed has been approved by a person
l — to do so pursuant to a written delegation
of authority.

“(2) WRITTEN DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.—A person who
authorizes a contract, or a modification to a contract, involving
the Corporation for goods or services exceeding $100,000 in
value shall state, in writing, that he or she has been delegated
the authority, pursuant to a written delegation of authority,
to authorize that contract or modification.

“(8) EFFECT OF FAILURE TO ag pp of any
person executing a contract, or a modification a contract,
on behalf of the Corporation, or authorizing such a contract
or modification of a contract, to comply with the requirements
of this subsection shall not void, or serve as grounds to void
or rescind, any otherwise properly executed contract.”.

SEC. 32. DEFINITION OF PROPERTY.

(a) Section 9102(e) of the Department of Defense Appropriations
re ra U.S.C. 396f note) is bry by striki Kay
sonal,” and inserting “real, perso including intangible assets
sold or offered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or
the Resolution Trust Corporation, such as financial instruments,
notes, loans, and bonds),”.

a Section 12(bX7Xvii) of Public Law 94-206, (43 USC. 1611
note) is ame y personal,” _—
soeconeeny aoe in ible assets sold or offered by the ederal
_— Insurance Corporation or the Resolution Trust Corporation,

as financial instruments, notes, loans, and bonds),”.
SEC. 33. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS RELATING TO PARTICIPATION OF
DISABLED AMERICANS IN CONTRACTING FOR DELIVERY
OF SERVICES TO FINANCIAL INSTITUTION REGULATORY
AGENCIES.

(a) FINDINGS.—The Co finds that Congress, in adopti
o _ Sane with Disabilities Act of 1990, specifically con
107 STAT. 2414 PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

(1) some 43,000,000 Americans have one or more physical
or mental disabilities, and this number is increasing;

(2) discrimination against individuals with disabilities per-
sists in such critical areas as employment, housing, public
accommodations, education, transportation, communication
recreation, institutionalization, health services, voting, and
access to public services;

(3) individuals with disabilities continually encounter var-
ious forms of discrimination, including outright intentional
exclusion, the discriminatory effects of architectural, transpor-
tation, and communication barriers, overprotective rules and
policies, failure to make modifications to existing facilities and
practices, exclusionary qualification standards and criteria, seg-
regation, and pgp ag to lesser services, programs, activities,
benefits, jobs, or other opportunities;

(4) census data, national polls, and other studies have
documented that people with bilities, as a group, occupy
an inferior status in our society, and are severely disadvantaged
socially, vocationally, economically, and educationally;

(5) individuals with disabilities are a discrete and insular
minority who have been faced with restrictions and limitations,
subjected to a history of purposeful unequal treatment, and
relegated to a position of political powerlessness in our society,
based on characteristics that are beyond the control of such
individuals and resulting from stereotypic assumptions not
truly indicative of re aareabanyor ability of such individuals
to participate in, and contribute to, society;

(6) the Nation’s proper regarding individuals with
disabilities are to assure equality of opportunity, full participa-
tion, a living, and economic self-sufficiency for such
individ ; and

(7) the continuing existence of unfair and unnecessary
discrimination and prejudice denies people with disabilities the
opportunity to compete on an equal basis and to pursue those
opportunities for which our free sony is justifiably famous,
and costs the United States billions of dollars in unnecessary
expenses resulting from dependency and perscoapr gy a
(b) SENSE OF THE CONGRESS.—It is the sense of the Congress

that the chief executive officer of the Resolution Trust Corporation,
the Director of the Office of Thrift Su ision, the Chairperson
of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion, the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Chairperson of
the Federal Housing Finance Board should take all steps
within each such aeeney to ensure that individuals with disabilities
and entities owned by individuals with disabilities, including finan-
cial institutions, investment banking firms, underwriters, asset
managers, accountants, and providers of legal services, are availed
of all opportunities to sompete in a manner which, at a minimum,
does not discriminate on basis of their disability for contracts
entered into by the agency to manage the institutions and their
assets for which the agency is sing pesos or to perform such
other functions authorized under any law applicable to such agency.

SEC, 34. REPORT TO CONGRESS BY SPECIAL COUNSEL.

(a) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment
of this Act, the — Counsel aren under section 2537 of
the Crime Control Act of 1990 ( .S.C. 509 note) shall submit
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2415

to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs
of the House of Representatives a report on the status of its efforts
to monitor and improve the collection of fines and restitution in
cases involving fraud and other criminal activity in and against

(b) CONTENTS.—The report required under subsection (a) shall

(1) information on the amount of fines and restitution
assessed in cases involving fraud and other criminal activity
in and against the financial services industry, the amount
of such fines and restitution collected, and an explanation of
any difference in those amounts;

(2) an explanation of the procedures for collecting and
monitoring restitution assessed in cases involving fraud and
other criminal activity in and against the financial services
industry and any suggested improvements to such procedures;

(3) an explanation of the availability under any provision
of law of punitive measures if restitution and fines assessed
in such cases are not paid;

(4) information concerning the efforts by the Department
of Justice to comply with guidelines for fine and restitution
collection and re ress procedures developed by the inter-
agency group lished by the Attorney General in accordance
with section 2539 of the Crime Control Act of 1990;

(5) any recommendations for additional resources or legisla-
tion necessary to improve collection efforts; and

(6) information concerning the status of the National Fine
Center of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.

SEC. 35. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS, 12 USC 1441a

The Resolution Trust Corporation shall provide semi-annual =
reports to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
of the Senate and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban
Affairs of the House ———— Such reports shall—

(1) detail p ures for expediting the registration and
contracting for selecting auctioneers for asset sales with antici-
pated proceeds of not more than $1,500,000;

(2) list by name and geographic area the number of auction
contractors which have been registered and qualified to perform
services for the Resolution Trust Corporation; and

(3) list by name, address of home office, location of assets
disposed, and gross proceeds realized, the number of auction

contractors which have been awarded contracts.

SEC, 36. CONTINUATION OF CONSERVATORSHIPS OR RECEIVERSHIPS.

Section 21A(bX6) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
U.S.C. 1441a(bX6)) is amended—
(1) by striking “If the Corporation” and inserting the follow-

ing:

(2) by sdding at the end the fe scp a h
adding at en e following new paragraph:

4B) SAIe avouae BANKS.—Notwithstanding any other
—— of Federal or State law, if the Federal Deposit
urance Corporation is appointed as conservator or
receiver for any Savings Association Insurance Fund mem-
-ber that has converted to a bank charter and otherwise
meets the criteria in paragraph (3A) or (6A), the Federal
107 STAT. 2416 PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993

12 USC 1821
note.

Deposit Insurance Corporation may tender such appoint-
ment to the Corporation, and the ration shall accept
such appointment, if the Corporation is authorized to accept
such appointment under this section.”.

SEC, 37, EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS.

(a) TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING CERTAIN INSTITUTIONS.—Section
11(aX4XB) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act shall not prohibit
assistance from the Bank Insurance Fund that otherwise meets
all the criteria established in section 13(c) of such Act from being
provided to an insured depository institution that became wholly-
owned, either directly or a wholly-owned subsidiary, by
an entity or instrumentality of a State government during the
period inning on January 1, 1992, and ending on the date
of enactment of this Act.

(b) TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING THE FDIC As RECEIVER.—Not-
withstanding the extension, pursuant to section 27, of the Resolu-
tion Trust Corporation’s jurisdiction to be appointed conservator
or receiver of certain savings associations after Bactenber 30, 1993,
no provision of this Act or any amendment made by this Act
shall invalidate or otherwise affect—

(1) any appointment of the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration as receiver for any savings association that became
effective before the date of enactment of this Act; or

(2) any action taken by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation as such receiver before, on, or after such date
of enactment.

SEC. 38. BANK DEPOSIT FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

(a) IN GENERAL.—Effective December 19, 1993, section 7(i) of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(i)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
(2) oy inserting paragraph (2), the following new

ph:

“(3) BANK DEPOSIT FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.—Not-
withstanding paragraph (1), funds deposited by an insured
depository institution pursuant to the Deposit Financial
Assistance Program of the Department of Energy shall be sepa-
rately insured in an amount not to exceed $100,000 for each
insured depository institution depositing such funds.”.

(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
11(aX1XC) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1821(aX1XC)) is amended by ing “section 7(iX1)” and inserting
PUBLIC LAW 103-204—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2417
“paragraph (1) or (2) of section 7(i) or funds described in
Reina ww

Approved December 17, 1993.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY—S. 714: (H.R. 1340):

— =) and Be ieee the Jediciey}) an = ee
airs) an mm. on the " accompan
H.R. 1340 and 103-380 (Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 103-36 (Comm. on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs).
CON Te tae RECORD, Vol. 139 Site
y 12, 13, considered and passed Sena
Sept. 1 .R. 1840 considered and moet House; S. 714, amended, passed in

Nov. 20, cacate agreed to conference report.
Nov. 22 Hi ouse to conference report.

‘YY COMPILATION OF PRESID DOCUMENTS, Vol. 29 (1993):
Dec. 17, Presidential statement.

