105 STAT. 2334 PUBLIC LAW 102-242—DEC. 19, 1991

12 USC 144la

note.

Truth in
Savings Act.
Consumer
protection.
Public
information.
12 USC 4301
note.

12 USC 4301.

12 USC 4302.

the 2-year period beginning on the date of such discharge or
discrimination.

“(3) Remepies.—If the district court determines that a viola-
tion has occurred, the court may order the Corporation or the
person which committed the violation to—

“(A) reinstate the employee to the employee’s former
position;

“(B) pay compensatory damages; or

“(C) take other appropriate actions to remedy any past
discrimination.

“(4) LuwrraTion.—The protections of this section shall not
apply to any employee who—

‘“(A) deliberately causes or participates in the alleged
violation of law or regulation; or

“(B) knowingly or recklessly provides substantially false
information to the Corporation, the Attorney General, or
any appropriate Federal banking agency.”

(2) DATE.—Subsection (q) of section 21A of the
Federal Home Loan Bank Act (as added under the amendment
made by parsarape (1)) shall be treated as having taken effect
on August 9, 1989, and for purposes of any cause of action
arising under such subsection (as so effective) before the date of
the enactment of this Act, the 2-year period referred to in
section 21A(q\(2) of such Act shall be deemed to begin on such
date of enactment.

Subtitle F—Truth in Savings

SEC, 261. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Truth in Savings Act”.
SEC. 262. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

(a) Finpincs.—The Congress hereby finds that economic stability
would be enhanced, competition between depository institutions
would be improved, and the ability of the consumer to make
informed decisions regarding deposit accounts, and to verify ac-
counts, would be strengthened if there was uniformity in the disclo-
sure of terms and conditions on which interest is paid and fees are
assessed in connection with such accounts.

(b) PurPose.—It is the purpose of this subtitle to require the clear
and uniform disclosure of—

(1) the rates of interest which are payable on deposit accounts
by depository institutions; and
(2) the fees that are assessable against deposit accounts,
so that consumers can make a meaningful comparison between the
competing claims of depository institutions with regard to deposit
accounts.

SEC. 263. DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST RATES AND TERMS OF ACCOUNTS.

(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subsection (b), each
advertisement, announcement, or solicitation initiated by any
depository institution or deposit broker relating to any demand or
interest-bearing account offered by an insured depository institution
which includes any reference to a specific rate of interest payable on
amounts deposited in such account, or to a specific yield or rate of
PUBLIC LAW 102-242—DEC. 19, 1991 105 STAT. 2335

earnings on amounts so deposited, shall state the following informa-
tion, to the extent applicable, in a clear and conspicuous manner:

(1) The annual percentage yield.

fa a period during which such annual percentage yield is
in effect.

(3) All minimum account balance and time requirements
which must be met in order to earn the advertised yield (and, in
the case of accounts for which more than 1 yield is stated, each
annual percentage yield and the account minimum balance
requirement associated with each such yield shall be in close
proximity and have equal prominence).

(4) The minimum amount of the initial deposit which is
required to open the account in order to obtain the yield adver-
tised, if such minimum amount is greater than the minimum
balance necessary to earn the advertised yield.

(5) A statement that regular fees or other conditions could
reduce the yield.

(6) A statement that an interest penalty is required for early
withdrawal.

(b) Broapcast AND ELECTRONIC MEpIA AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING
Exception.—The Board may, by regulation, exempt advertisements,
announcements, or solicitations made by any broadcast or electronic
medium or outdoor advertising suey not on the premises of the
depository institution from any disclosure requirements described in
paragraph (4) or (5) of subsection (a) if the Board finds that any such
disclosure would be unnecessarily burdensome.

(c) MistEADING Descriprions oF FREE oR No-Cost AccouUNTS
PROHIBITED.—No advertisement, announcement, or solicitation
made by any depository institution or deposit broker may refer to or
describe an account as a free or no-cost account (or words of similar
meaning) if—

(1) in order to avoid fees or service charges for any period—

(A) a minimum balance must be maintained in the ac-
count during such period; or

(B) the number of transactions during such period may
not exceed a maximum number; or

(2) any regular service or transaction fee is imposed.

(d) MIsLEADING OR INACCURATE ADVERTISEMENTS, Etc., PROHIB-
1rED.—No depository institution or deposit broker shall make any
advertisement, announcement, or solicitation relating to a deposit
account that is inaccurate or misleading or that misrepresents its
deposit contracts.

SEC. 264. ACCOUNT SCHEDULE. 12 USC 4303.

(a) In GeNERAL.—Each depository institution shall maintain a Regulations.
schedule of fees, charges, interest rates, and terms and conditions
applicable to each class of accounts offered by the depository institu-
tion, in accordance with the requirements of this section and regula-
tions which the Board shall prescribe. The Board shall specify, in
regulations, which fees, charges, penalties, terms, conditions, and
account restrictions must be included in a schedule required under
this subsection. A depository institution need not include in such
schedule any information not specified in such regulation.

(b) INFORMATION ON FeEs AND CuarGeEs.—The schedule required
under subsection (a) with respect to any account shall contain the
following information:
105 STAT. 2336 PUBLIC LAW 102-242—DKC. 19, 1991

(1) A description of all fees, periodic service charges, and
penalties which may be charged or assessed against the account
(or against the account holder in connection with such account),
the amount of any such fees, c e, or penalty (or the method
by which such amount will be calculated), and the conditions
under which any such amount will be assessed.

(2) All minimum balance requirements that affect fees,
charges, and penalties, including a clear description of how each
such minimum balance is calculated.

(3) Any minimum amount required with respect to the initial
deposit in order to open the account.

(c) INFORMATION ON INTEREST Rates.—The schedule uired
under subsection (a) with respect to any account shall include the
following information:

(1) Any annual percentage yield.

(2) The period during which any such annual percentage yield
will be in effect.

(3) Any annual rate of simple interest.

Bi. to frequency with which interest will be compounded and
c ;

(5) A clear description of the method used to determine the
balance on which interest is paid.

(6) The information described in paragraphs (1) through (4)
with respect to any period after the end of the period referred to
in paragraph (2) (or the method for computing any information
described in any such paragraph), if applicable.

(7) Any minimum balance which must be maintained to earn
the rates and obtain the yields disclosed pursuant to this subsec-
tion and a clear description of how any such minimum balance
is calculated.

(8) A clear description of any minimum time requirement
which must be met in order to obtain the yields disclosed
pursuant to this subsection and any information described in
paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4) that will apply if any time require-
ment is not met.

(9) A statement, if applicable, that any interest which has
accrued but has not been credited to an account at the time of a
withdrawal from the account will not be paid by the depository
—a or credited to the account by reason of such with-

rawal.

(10) Any provision or requirement relating to nonpayment of
interest, including any charge or penalty for early wit drawal,
and the conditions under which any such charge or penalty may
be assessed.

(d) OrneR INFORMATION.—The schedule required under subsection
(a) shall include such other disclosures as the Board may determine
to be necessary to allow consumers to understand and compare
accounts, including frequency of interest rate adjustments, account
restrictions, and renewal policies for time accounts.

(e) SryLze AND Format.—Schedules required under subsection (a)
shall be written in clear and plain language and be presented in a
format designed to allow consumers to readily understand the terms

of the accounts offered.
Regulations. SEC. 265. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN ACCOUNTS.
12 USC 4804. The Board shall require, in regulations which the Board shall

prescribe, such modification in the disclosure requirements under
PUBLIC LAW 102-242—DKEC. 19, 1991 105 STAT. 2337

this Act relating to annual percentage yield as may be necessary to
carry out the purposes of this Act in the case of—

(1) accounts with respect to which determination of annual
percentage yield is based on an annual rate of interest that is
guaranteed for a period of less than 1 year;

(2) variable rate accounts;

(83) accounts which, pursuant to law, do not guarantee pay-
ment of a stated rate;

(4) multiple rate accounts; and

(5) accounts with respect to which determination of annual
percentage yield is based on an annual rate of interest that is
guaranteed for a stated term.

SEC. 266. DISTRIBUTION OF SCHEDULES. 12 USC 4305.

(a) In GENERAL.—A schedule required under section 264 for an
appropriate account shall be—
(1) made available to any person upon request;
(2) provided to any potential customer before an account is
opened or a service is rendered; and
(3) provided to the depositor, in the case of any time deposit
which is renewable at maturity without notice from the deposi-
tor, at least 30 days before the date of maturity.
(b) DistRIBUTION IN CASE OF CERTAIN INITIAL Deposits.—If—
(1) a depositor is not anepr cere present at an office of a
depository institution at the time an initial oo is accepted
ie respect to an account established by or for such person;

an
(2) the schedule required under section 264(a) has not been
furnished previously to such depositor,
the por ss! institution shall mail the schedule to the depositor at
the address shown on the records of the depository institution for
ae sccunnt no later than 10 days after the date of the initial
eposit.

(c) DistrIBUTION oF Notice or CERTAIN CHANGES.—If—

(1) any anenge made in any term or condition which is

uired to be disclosed in the schedule required under section
264(a) with respect to any account; and

(2) the change may reduce the yield or adversely affect any

holder of the account,

all account holders who may be affected by such change shall be

notified and ao teage: with a description of the change by mail at
least 30 days before the change takes effect.

(d) DistRrBuTION IN CasE oF AccouNTS ESTABLISHED BY MORE
THAN 1 INDIVIDUAL OR BY A Group.—If an account is established by
more than 1 individual or for a person other than an individual, any
distribution described in this section with respect to such account
meets the requirements of this section if the distribution is made to
1 of the individuals who established the account or 1 individual
representative of the person on whose behalf such account was
established.

(e) Notice to Account Ho.Lpers AS OF THE ErrectivE DATE OF
REGULATIONS.—For any account for which the depository institution
delivers an account statement on a quarterly or more frequent basis,
the eeety institution shall include on or with any regularly
scheduled mailing posted or delivered within 180 days r publica-
tion of regulations issued by the Board in final form, a statement
that the account holder has the right to request an account schedule
105 STAT. 2338 PUBLIC LAW 102-242—DEC. 19, 1991

12 USC 4306.

12 USC 4307.

12 USC 4308.

containing the terms, charges, and interest rates of the account, and
oe the account holder may wish to request such an account
schedule.

SEC. 267. PAYMENT OF INTEREST.

(a) CALCULATED ON FULL AMOUNT OF PRINCIPAL.—Interest on an
interest-bearing account at any depository institution shall be cal-
culated by such institution on the full amount of principal in the
account for each day of the stated calculation period at the rate or
rates of interest disclosed pursuant to this Act.

(b) No PartICcULAR OD OF COMPOUNDING INTEREST RE-
QUIRED.—Subsection (a) shall not be construed as prohibiting or
requiring the use of any particular method of compounding or
crediting of interest.

(c) Dare sy Wuicu InTrerEst Must Accrue.—lInterest on accounts
that are subject to this Act shall begin to accrue not later than the
business day specified for ee he accounts in section 606 of
the Expedited Funds Availability Act, subject to subsections (b) and
(c) of such section.

SEC. 268. PERIODIC STATEMENTS.

Each depository institution shall include on or with each periodic
statement provided to each account holder at such institution a
clear and conspicuous disclosure of the following information with
respect to such account:

(1) The annual percentage yield earned.

(2) The amount of interest earned.

(3) The amount of any fees or charges imposed.
(4) The number of days in the reporting period.

SEC. 269. REGULATIONS.

(a) In GENERAL.—

(1) REGULATIONS REQUIRED.—Before the end of the 9-month

pees beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the

, after consultation with each agency referred to in section
270(a) and public notice and opportunity for comment, shall
Sag ey regulations to carry out the purpose and provisions of
this Act.

(2) EFFECTIVE DATE OF REGULATIONS.—The regulations pre-
scribed under paragraph (1) shall take effect not later than 6
months after publication in final form.

(8) CONTENTS OF REGULATIONS.—The regulations prescribed
under paragraph (1) may contain such classifications, differen-
tiations, or other provisions, and may provide for such adjust-
ments and exceptions for any class of accounts as, in the
judgment of the Board, are necessary or proper to carry out
the purposes of this Act, to prevent circumvention or evasion of
the requirements of this Act, or to facilitate compliance with
the requirements of this Act.

(4) DaTE OF APPLICABILITY.—The provisions of this Act shall
not apply with respect to any depository institution before the
effective date of regulations prescribed by the Board under this
subsection (or by the National Credit Union Administration
Board under section 12(b), in the case of any depository institu-
tion described in clause (iv) of section 19(b\1)A) of the Federal
Reserve Act).

(b) Move. Forms AND CLAUSES.—
PUBLIC LAW 102-242—DKEC. 19, 1991 105 STAT. 2339

(1) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall publish model forms and
clauses for common disclosures to facilitate compliance with
this Act. In devising such forms, the Board shall consider the
use by depository institutions of data processing or similar
automated machines.

(2) Usk OF FORMS AND CLAUSES DEEMED IN COMPLIANCE.—
Nothing in this Act may be construed to require a depository
institution to use any such model form or clause prescribed by
the Board under this subsection. A depository institution shall
be deemed to be in compliance with the disclosure provisions of
this Act if the depository institution—

-(A) uses any appropriate model form or clause as pub-
lished by the Board; or
‘ (B) uses any such model form or clause and changes it
———
(i) deleting any information which is not required by
this Act; or
(ii) rearranging the format,
if in making such deletion or rearranging the format, the
depository institution does not affect the substance, clarity,
or meaningful sequence of the disclosure.

(3) PUBLIC NOTICE AND OPPORTUNITY FOR COMMENT.—Model Federal
disclosure forms and clauses shall be adopted by the Board after Register,
duly given notice in the Federal Register and an opportunity for
Si — in accordance with section 553 of title 5, United

tates e.

SEC. 270. ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT. 12 USC 4309.

(a) In GenERAL.—Compliance with the requirements imposed
under this Act shall be enforced under—

(1) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act—

(A) by the appropriate Federal banking agency (as de-
fined in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act)
in the case of insured depository institutions (as defined in
section 3(c)\(2) of such Act);

(B) by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in the
case of depository institutions described in clause (i), (ii), or
(iii) of section 19(b)(1A) of the Federal Reserve Act which
are not insured depository institutions (as defined in section
3(c)\(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act); and

(C) by the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision in
the case of depository institutions described in clause (v)
and or (vi) of section 19(b\1)A) of the Federal Reserve Act
which are not insured depository institutions (as defined in
section 3(c\2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act); and

(2) the Federal Credit Union Act, by the National Credit
Union Administration Board in the case of depository institu-
tions described in clause (iv) of section 19(b)(1A) of the Federal
Reserve Act.

(b) AppITIONAL ENFORCEMENT POWERS.—

(1) VIOLATION OF THIS ACT TREATED AS VIOLATION OF OTHER
acts.—For purposes of the exercise by any agency referred to in
subsection (a) of such agency’s powers under any Act referred to
in such subsection, a violation of a requirement imposed under
this Act shall be deemed to be a violation of a requirement
imposed under that Act.
105 STAT. 2340

PUBLIC LAW 102-242—DEC. 19, 1991

(2) ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY UNDER OTHER ACTs.—In addition
to the powers of any agency referred to in subsection (a) under
any provision of law specifically referred to in such subsection,
each such agency may exercise, for purposes of enforcing
compliance with any requirement imposed under this Act, any
other authority conferred on such agency by law.

(c) REGULATIONS BY AGENCIES OTHER THAN THE Boarp.—The

authority of the Board to issue regulations under this Act does not
impair the authority of any other agency referred to in subsection
(a) to make rules regarding its own procedures in enforcing compli-
ance with the requirements imposed under this Act.

12 USC 4310. SEC. 271. CIVIL LIABILITY.

(a) Crviz LiaBiiry.—Except as otherwise provided in this section,

any depository institution which fails to comply with any require-
ment imposed under this Act or any regulation prescribed under
this Act with respect to any person who is an account holder is
liable to such person in an amount equal to the sum of—

(1) any actual damage sustained by such person as a result of
the failure;

(2A) in the case of an individual action, such additional
amount as the court may allow, except that the liability under
toe. shall not be less than $100 nor greater than

»VUU; or

(B) in the case of a class action, such amount as the court may
allow, except that—

(i) as to each member of the class, no minimum recovery
shall be applicable; and

(ii) the total recovery under this subparagraph in any
class action or series of class actions arising out of the same
failure to comply by the same depository institution shall
not be more than the lesser of $500,000 or 1 percent of the
net worth of the depository institution involved; and

(3) in the case of any successful action to enforce any liability
under paragraph (1) or (2), the costs of the action, together with
a reasonable attorney’s fee as determined by the court.

(b) CLass Action Awarps.—In determining the amount of any

award in any class action, the court shall consider, among other
relevant factors—

(1) the amount of any actual damages awarded;

(2) the frequency and persistence of failures of compliance;

(3) the resources of the depository institution;

(4) the number of persons adversely affected; and

(5) the extent to which the failure of compliance was
intentional.

(c) Bona Five Errogs.—

(1) GENERAL RULE.—A depository institution may not be held
liable in any action brought under this section for a violation of
this Act if the depository institution demonstrates by a prepon-
derance of the evidence that the violation was not intentional
and resulted from a bona fide error, notwithstanding the
maintenance of procedures reasonably adapted to avoid any
such error.

(2) ExaAMpLEsS.—Examples of a bona fide error include clerical,
calculation, computer malfunction and programming, and
printing errors, except that an error of legal judgment with
PUBLIC LAW 102-242—DEC. 19, 1991 105 STAT. 2341

respect to a depository institution’s obligation under this Act is
not a bona fide error.

(d) No Liasitity ror OvERPAYMENT.—A depository institution
may not be held liable in any action under this section for a
violation of this Act if the violation has resulted in—

(1) an interest payment to the account holder in an amount
ter than the amount determined under any disclosed rate of
interest applicable with respect to such payment; or
(2) a charge to the consumer in an amount less than the
amount determined under the disclosed charge or fee schedule
applicable with respect to such charge.

(e) JuRIsDICTION.—Any action under this section may be brought
in any United States district court, or in any other court of com-
petent jurisdiction, within 1 year after the date of the occurrence of
the violation involved.

(f) RELIANCE ON Boarp Ru.incs.—No provision of this section
imposing any liability shall apply to any act done or omitted in good
faith in conformity with any regulation or order, or any interpreta-
tion of any regulation or order, of the Board, or in conformity with
any interpretation or approval by an official or employee of the
Board duly authorized by the Board to issue such interpretation or
approval under procedures prescribed by the Board, notwithstand-
ing, the fact that after such act or omission has occurred, such
regulation, order, interpretation, or approval is amended, rescinded,
or determined by judicial or other authority to be invalid for any
reason.

(g) NOTIFICATION OF AND ADJUSTMENT FOR Errors.—A depository
institution shall not be liable under this section or section 270 for
any failure to comply with any requirement imposed under this Act
with respect to any account if—

(1) before—

(A) the end of the 60-day period beginning on the date on
pieces the depository institution discovered the failure to
comply;

(B) any action is instituted against the depository institu-
tion by the account holder under this section with respect
to such failure to comply; and

(C) any written notice of such failure to comply is
<r by the depository institution from the account

older,
the depository institution notifies the account holder of the
failure of such institution to comply with such requirement; and
(2) the depository institution sea hs such adjustments as may
be necessary with to such account to ensure that—

(A) the account holder will not be liable for any amount
in excess of the amount actually disclosed with respect to
ey or charge;

) the account holder will not be liable for any fee or
ne imposed under any condition not actually disclosed;
an

(C) interest on amounts in such account will accrue at the
annual percentage yield, and under the conditions, actually
disc] (and credit will be provided for interest already
accrued at a different ann percentage yield and under
different conditions than the yield or conditions disclosed).

(h) Muutiete INTerEsts in 1 Account.—If more than 1 person
holds an interest in any account—
105 STAT. 2342 PUBLIC LAW 102-242—DEC. 19, 1991

12 USC 4311.

12 USC 4312.

12 USC 4313.

(1) the minimum and maximum amounts of liability under
subsection (a\2)A) for any failure to comply with the require-
ments of this Act shall apply with respect to such account; and

(2) the court shall determine the manner in which the amount
of any such liability with respect to such account shall be
distributed among such persons.

(i) CONTINUING FAILURE TO DiscLosE.—

(1) CERTAIN CONTINUING FAILURES TREATED AS 1 VIOLATION.—
Except as provided in mo cs “la the continuing failure of
any depository institution to disclose any particular term re-
quired to be disclosed under this Act with respect to a particular
account shall be treated as a single violation for purposes of
determining the amount of any liability of such institution
under subsection (a) for such failure to disclose.

(2) SUBSEQUENT FAILURE TO DISCLOSE.—The continuing failure
of any depository institution to disclose any particular term
required to be disclosed under this Act with res to a particu-
lar account after judgment has been rende in favor of the
account holder in connection with a prior failure to disclose
such term with respect to such account shall be treated as a
subsequent violation for purposes of determining liability under
subsection (a).

(3) COORDINATION WITH SECTION 270.—This subsection shall
not limit or otherwise affect the enforcement power under
section 270 of any agency referred to in subsection (a) of such
section.

SEC. 272. CREDIT UNIONS.

(a) In GeNERAL.—No tion prescribed by the Board under
this Act shall apply directly with respect to any depository institu-
tion described in clause (iv) of section 19(b\1A) of the Federal
Reserve Act.

(b) REGULATIONS PRESCRIBED BY THE NCUA.—Within 90 days of
the effective date of any regulation prescribed by the Board under
this Act, the National Credit Union Administration Board shall
prescribe a oe, ar substantially similar to the regulation pre-
scribed by the taking into account the unique nature of credit
unions and the limitations under which they may pay dividends on
member accounts.

SEC. 273. EFFECT ON STATE LAW.

The provisions of this Act do not supersede any provisions of the
law of any State relating to the disclosure of yields payable or terms
for accounts to the extent such State law requires the disclosure of
such yields or terms for accounts, except to the extent that those
laws are inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, and then only
to the extent of the inconsistency. The Board may determine
whether such inconsistencies exist.

SEC. 274. DEFINITIONS.

For the purposes of this Act—

(1) Account.—The term “account” means any account
offered to 1 or more individuals or an unincorporated
nonbusiness association of individuals by a depository institu-
tion into which a customer deposits funds, including demand
accounts, time accounts, negotiable order of withdrawal ac-
counts, and share draft accounts.
PUBLIC LAW 102-242—DKEC. 19, 1991 105 STAT. 2348

(2) ANNUAL PERCENTAGE YIELD.—The term “annual percent-
age yield” means the total amount of interest that would be
received on a $100 deposit, based on the annual rate of simple
interest and the frequency of compounding for a 365-day period,
expressed as a percentage calculated by a method which shall
be prescribed by the Board in regulations.

(3) ANNUAL RATE OF SIMPLE INTEREST.—The term “annual rate
of simple interest’ —

(A) means the annualized rate of interest paid with
pend each compounding period, expressed as a percent-
age; an

(B) may be referred to as the “annual percentage rate”.

(4) Boarp.—The term “Board” means the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System.

(5) Deposir BROoKER.—The term “deposit broker” —

(A) has the meaning given to such term in section 29(f\1)
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; and

(B) includes any person who solicits any amount from any
other person for deposit in an insured depository institu-
tion.

(6) Deposrrory INSTITUTION.—The term “depository institu-
tion” has the meaning given such term in clauses (i) through (vi)
of section 19(b)(1A) of the Federal Reserve Act.

(7) InrEREsTt.—The term “interest” includes dividends paid
with respect to share draft accounts which are accounts within
the meaning of paragraph (3).

(8) MULTIPLE RATE ACCOUNT.—The term “multiple rate
account” means any account that has 2 or more annual rates of
simple interest which take effect at the same time or in succeed-
ing periods and which are known at the time of disclosure.

TITLE II—REGULATORY IMPROVEMENT
Subtitle A—Activities

SEC. 301. LIMITATIONS ON BROKERED DEPOSITS AND DEPOSIT SOLICI-
TATIONS.

(a) In GENERAL.—Section 29 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
(12 U.S.C. 1831f) is amended—

(1) in subsection (a), by striking “troubled institution” and

inserting “insured depository institution that is not well capital-

(2) in subsection (c), by inserting “which is adequately capital-
ized” after “insured depository institution”;

(3) in subsection (d), by striking all after “unsound practice;”
and inserting the following:

“(2) is necessary to enable the institution to meet the de-
mands of its depositors or pay its obligations in the ordinary
course of business; and

“(3) is consistent with the conservator’s fiduciary duty to
minimize the institution’s losses.

Effective 90 days after the date on which the institution was placed Effective date.
in conservatorship, the institution may not accept such deposits.”;
