PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 183

Public Law 101-73
101st Congress
An Act

To reform, recapitalize, and consolidate the Federal deposit insurance system, to Aug. 9, 1989
enhance the regulatory and enforcement powers of Federal financial institutions _—*
regulatory agencies, and for other purposes. (H.R. 1278]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, Financial
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS. Reform,

(a) SHort TrrLe.—This Act may be cited as the ‘Financial Institu- eens ond
tions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989”. Act of 1989.
(b) TABLE oF CONTENTS.— 12 USC 1811

ote.
TITLE I—PURPOSES =

Sec. 101. Purposes.
TITLE II—FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION

rss Far ae
of Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
* FDIC Board members.
Definitions.
ss iention Se fees.
- Insurability ecency
Succran semen of the FDIC.
of Corporation.

SHEE
yee

SS BnERE ERS

ee
——

B
[I
|
|

eee

NNVNNNVNKN
Hi
ihe
tt

C Resolution Fund.

—
Roe

18, FDIC borrowing authori
19. Exemption from io id limitation on borrowing.

- Regulations governing insured d depository institutions.

Activities of savings associa’

. Nondiscrimination.

Sec. 204. Brokered deposits.

Sec. 225. Contracts between depository institutions and persons providing goods,
ucts, or services.

Sec. 226. Savings association insurance fund industry advisory committee estab-

aa

SSRES:

TITLE I1]—SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS

eae. 20) Reeeninent it to Home Owners’ Loan Act of 1933.

Sec. 304. itional rule for certain transactions with affiliates.

Sec. 305. Transitional rules regarding certain loans and effective dates.
Sec. 306. Amendment of additional powers of Director.

Sec. 307. Amendment to title 31, United States Code.

Sec. 308. Preserving minority ownership of minority financial institutions.

TITLE IV—TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS, PERSONNEL, AND PROPERTY
Sec. 401. FSLIC and Federal Home Loan Bank Board abolished.

AUTHENTICATED
U.S. GOVERNMENT
INFORMATION
GPO
103 STAT. 184

SESE

gf

-

603.
604.

aes ae

701.

501.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

Sec. ok Continuation and coordination of certain regulations.

Determination of transferred functions and employees.

. 404. Rights of employees of abolished agencies.
405. Division of property and facilities.
. 406. Report.

TITLE V—FINANCING FOR THRIFT RESOLUTIONS

Subtitle A—Oversight Board and Resolution Trust Corporation
Oversight Board and Resolution Trust Corporation established.

Subtitle B—Resolution Funding Corporation

511. Resolution Funding Corporation established.
512. Financing Corporation.

TITLE VI—THRIFT ACQUISITION ENHANCEMENT PROVISIONS

A ition of thrift institutions by bank holding companies.
Technical amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act.
Passive investments by companies controlling certain tate nonbesk banks.
Purchase of minority interest in undercapitalized savings associations by
holding companies allowed.

TITLE VII—FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM REFORMS

Subtitle A—Federal Home Loan Bank Act Amendments
Definitions.

702. Federal Housing Finance Board established.

703.
. Eligibility for membership.

. Repeal o seriinloie Holatinig to:veke 6 internat eit depoaile,

. Capital stock.

. Election of Bank directors.

; Be Secs relating to certain powers of the Federal Home Loan

. Powers and duties of Banks.
; pice of borrowers are Some advances.
. Administrative expe’

SESSERERE FE RERER SSSR EEE

Sec. 725.

Sec. 731.

Sec. 741.

Sec. 742.

Sec. 743.

Sec. 744.

Sec. 801.

Sec. 802.
Sec. 803.
Sec. 804.

Termination of ¢ af the Federal Home Loan Bank Board.

: Nonedtnintatrative ¢
; — ae i Corporation Industry Advisory Com-

i Pi smecal
é <a relating to withdrawal from Federal Home Loan Bank mem-

mock and bi relating to lawful contract rate.
——

ie Parift havinn
. Examination of ee.

- Affoedablie Affordable housing.

Transferred employees of Federal Home Loan Banks and joint offices.
. Transitional provisions.
Federal Home Loan Bank reserves.
Special account.
Subtitle B—Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.

Subtitle C—Technical and Conforming Amendments

Repeal of limitation of obligation for administrative expenses.
Amendment of title 5, United States Code.
Amendment of Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act

provisions.
Conforming amendments to financial institution related Acts.
eee VIII—BANK CONSERVATION ACT AMENDMENTS
A crane f to
peta of conservator.
Examina’

tions.
Termination of conservatorship.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 185

Sec. 805. Conservator; powers and duties.
Sec. 807. Rules and regulations.
Sec. 808. Repeals.
TITLE IX—REGULATORY ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY AND CRIMINAL
ENHANCEMENTS
Subtitle A—Expanded Enforcement Powers, Increased Penalties, and Improved
Accountability
Sec. 901. Institution-affiliated parties of a depository institution subject to adminis-
trative enforcement orders; substitution of Siang institution” for
“bank” in enforcement
Sec. 902. Amendments to cease desist authority with respect to restitution, re-

strictions on specific activities, for issuance of a temporary
order, and incomplete or inaccurate records.

Beer. of remnoeel 9ne See Senet.

Industrywide application of removal, suspension, and prohibition orders.

. Enforcement ¢Ramoral tower fr eats inal rosin

: Glrietion of ciminal penalty provisions for vslation of certain orders
; Saceoeaed sunnier tor neatiadiind convicted individuals.

. Amendments etn con ier idetee @ aoe.

: Ruahetity oF the EMC ts take Ghdoceseent ecties agelent anvhige atectio-

913. Public disclosure of enforcement actions required.
914. haley Daeepenal ot Seotiles eink seater eacenitve sie ad caltebn de

eric d institutions.
915. Clarification of NCUA’s authority to conduct compliance investigations.
. Improved administrative and procedures.

917. Task force study of delegation of enforcement actions.

918. Annual report to Congress.

919. Credit union audit requirements.

920. Technical amendments relating to administrative and judicial review.

Subtitle B—Termination of Deposit Insurance
926. Revision of procedures for termination of FDIC deposit insurance.
Subtitle C—Improving Early Detection of Misconduct and Encouraging Informants

py ta ens ication connie praieeean roeaae. auditors.
pository insti emp protection remedy.
933. Reward for information to recoveries or civil penalties.

Subtitle D—Right to Financial Privacy Act Amendments

903.
904.
905
roa Amendments ts to expand and increase civil money
909
910.
911

f RRRERE PS ERE EER ES

Subtitle E—Civil Penalties for Violations Involving Financial Institutions
951. Civil penalties.
Subtitle F—Criminal Law and Procedure

961. Increased criminal penalties for certain financial institution offenses.
962. Miscellaneous revisions to title 18.

RREEEEES =F PERE ss

TITLE X—STUDIES OF FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE, BANKING SERV-
ICES, AND THE SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS OF GOVERNMENT-SPONSORED
ENTERPRISES

Sec. 1001. Study of Federal deposit insurance system.
103 STAT. 186

£82

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

1002. Survey of bank fees and services.
1003.
. 1004.

General Accounting Office study.
Study regarding capital requirements for government-sponsored
enterprises.

TITLE XI—REAL ESTATE APPRAISAL REFORM AMENDMENTS

1220
1221.

ESSSESSESES SERRE SEES EF RRREESE EE RE SRREE FE

1101.
1102.

1103.
1104.
1105.
1106.
1107.

1108.
1109.

1110.

1111.
1112.

1113.
1114.
1115.
1116.
1117.
1118.
1119.

1120.

1121.
1122.

Purpose

Eetetichment of Appraisal Subcommittee of the Federal Financial Insti-
tutions Examination Council.

Functions of Appraisal Subcommittee.

Chairperson of Appraisal Subcommittee; term of Chairperson; meetings.

Officers and staff.

Powers of Appraisal Subcommittee.

Procedures for establishing appraisal standards and requiring the use of
certified and licensed appraisers.

Startup funding.

Roster of State certified or licensed appraisers; authority to collect and
transmit fees.

Functions of the Federal financial institutions regulatory agencies relat-
ing to appraisal standards.

Time for proposal and adoption of standards.

Functions of the Federal or Roane institutions regulatory agencies relat-
ing to appraiser qualifications.

Transactions requiring the services of a State certified appraiser.

Transactions requiring the services of a State licensed appraiser.

Time for proposal and adoption of rules.

Certification and licensing requirements.

a gees sige bd State appraiser rorbs dag J po licensing agencies.
onitoring 0 te appraiser certifying and licensing agencies

Hecoant tion of State certified and licensed appraisers for purposes of this
title

Violations in obtaining and performing appraisals in federally related
transactions.

Definitions.

Miscellaneous provisions.

TITLE XII—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

. GAO study of credit union system.

. OCC employment provision.

. NCUA employment provision.
Expansi

on of use of underutilized minority banks, women’s banks, and
low-income credit unions.

. Co arebility i couse tie sched

. Com t pr 9 es.

. Study by Sactare of the Treasury.

i Exvendture of taxpayer money only for deposit insurance purposes.

. Amendment to section 5373 of title 5, United States Code.

. Farm Credit Administration and Farm Credit System Insurance Corpora-

tion employment provision.

. Fair lending oversight and enforcement.

. Amendment to the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977.
yg Comptroller General audit and access to records

1215.
1216.
1217.
1218.
1219.

Amendment related to the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act.
Capital and accounting standards.

opportunity.
NCUA powers as ‘Tiguidating agent and conservator.
Risk management training.
Cross-marketing restrictions.

. Report on loan discrimination.

Senarability of provisions.

TITLE XINI—PARTICIPATION BY STATE HOUSING FINANCE AUTHORITIES

a8

Sec. 1401.

1301.
1302.

AND NONPROFIT ENTITIES
Authorization for State housing finance agencies and nonprofit entities
to purchase mortgage-related assets.
TITLE XIV—TAX PROVISIONS

Early termination of special reorganization rules for financial insti-
tutions.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 187

Sec. 1402. Tax exemption for Resolution Trust Corporation and Resolution Funding
Corporation.
Sec. 1403. Annual sapere on transactions in which Federal financial assistance

Sec. 1404. Studies of relationship between public debt and activities of Government-
sponsored enterprises.

TITLE I—PURPOSES

SEC. 101. PURPOSES. 12 USC 1811

The purposes of this Act are as follows: _—

(1) To promote, through atory reform, a safe and stable
system of affordable housing finance.

(2) To improve the supervision of savings associations by
strengthening capital, accounting, and other supervisory
standards.

(3) To curtail investments and other activities of savings
associations that pose unacceptable risks to the Federal deposit
insurance funds.

(4) To promote the independence of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance pid agers from the institutions the deposits of which it
insures, by providing an independent board of directors, ade-
quate funding, and veh homes powers.

(5) To put the Fede deposit insurance funds on a sound
financial footing.

(6) To establish an Office of Thrift Supervision in the Depart-
ment of the Treasury, under the general oversight of the Sec-

of the Treasury.

(7) To establish a new corporation, to be known as the Resolu-
tion Trust Corporation, to contain, manage, and resolve failed
savings associations.

(8) To provide funds from public and private sources to deal
expeditiously with failed depository institutions.

(9) To strengthen the enforcement powers of Federal regu-
lators of depository institutions.

(10) To strengthen the civil sanctions and criminal penalties
for defrauding or otherwise damaging depository institutions
and their depositors.

TITLE II—FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE
CORPORATION

SEC, 201. DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS.

(a) AMENDMENTS TO REFERENCES TO INSURED BANK.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.) is
amended by striking out “insured bank”, “insured banks”, and
“insured bank’s” em lace each term a a grag in such Act
(except where an term is preceded by “member” or
“nonmember’’) an sreerting | in lieu thereof “insured depository
institution”, “insured depository institutions’, and “insured
depository institution’s”, respectively.

(2) Exceprions.—The terms “insured bank” and “insured
banks” shall not be amended pursuant to paragraph (1) in
103 STAT. 188 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

12 USC 1812.

sections 3(h), 11(h), 11(i), 18(¢X1XB), 18(H, and 18(d) of the Fed-
eral Deposit Insurance Act.

(b) AMENDMENTS TO REFERENCES TO FEDERAL Home LOAN BANK
Boarp.—The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.)
is amended by striking out “Federal Home Loan Bank Board” eac
place such term ap ‘and inserting in lieu thereof “Director of
the Office of Thrift Supervision”.

SEC. 202. DUTIES OF FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION.

Section 1 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811) is
amended by inserting “and savings associations” after “banks”.

SEC. 203. FDIC BOARD MEMBERS.

(a) In GeENERAL.—Section 2 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act is
amended to read as follows:

“SEC. 2, MANAGEMENT.

“(a) Boarp or Direcrors.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—The management of the Corporation shall
be vested in a Board of Directors consisting of 5 members—
“(A) 1 of whom shall be the Comptroller of the Currency;
“(B) 1 of whom shall be the Director of the Office of Thrift
Supervision; and
“(C) 3 of whom shall be appointed by the President, by
and with the advice and consent of the Senate, from among
individuals who are citizens of the United States.

“(2) POLITICAL AFFILIATION.—After Feb 28, 1993, not
more than 3 of the members of the Board of Directors may be
members of the same political party.

“(b) CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIRPERSON.—

“(1) CHAIRPERSON.—1 of the appointed members shall be des-
agnied by the President, by and with the advice and consent of
the Senate, to serve as Chairperson of the Board of Directors for
a term of 5 years.

“(2) VICE CHAIRPERSON.—1 of the appointed members shall be
designated by the President, a and with the advice and consent
of the Senate, to serve as Vice Chairperson of the Board of

rs.

“(3) ACTING CHAIRPERSON.—In the event of a vacancy in the
position of irperson of the Board of Directors or during the
absence or disability of the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson
shall act as Chairperson.

“(c) TeRMS.—

“(1) APPOINTED MEMBERS.—Each appointed member shall be
appointed for a term of 6 years.

‘(2) INTERIM APPOINTMENTS.—Any member appointed to fill a
vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which
such member’s predecessor was appointed shall be appointed
only for the remainder of such term.

“(3) CONTINUATION OF SERVICE.—The Chairperson, Vice Chair-
person, and each appointed member may continue to serve after
the expiration of term of office to which such member was
appointed until a successor has been appointed and qualified.

“(d) Vacancy.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Any vacancy on the Board of Directors
reap in the manner in which the original appointment
was e.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 189

“(2) ACTING OFFICIALS MAY SERVE.—In the event of a vacancy
in the office of the Comptroller of the Currency or the office of
Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision and pending the
appointment of a successor, or during the absence or disability
oF the Comptroller or such Director, the acting Comptroller of
the Currency or the acting Director of the Office of Thrift
Supervision, as the case may be, shall be a member of the Board
of Di rs in the place of the Comptroller or Director.

“(e) INELIGIBILITY FOR OTHER OFFICES.—

“(1) PoSTSERVICE RESTRICTION. —

“(A) IN GENERAL.—No member of the Board of Directors
may hold any office, position, or employment in any insured
depository institution or any depository institution holding
company during—

“(i) the time such member is in office; and
“(ii) the 2-year period beginning on the date such
member ceases to serve on the of Directors.

“(B) EXCEPTION FOR MEMBERS WHO SERVE FULL TERM.—
The limitation contained in subparagraph (A ii) shall not
apply to any member who has ceased to serve on the Board
of Directors after serving the full term for which such
member was appointed.

“(2) RESTRICTION DURING SERVICE.—No member of the Board
of Directors may—

“(A) be an officer or director of any insured depository
institution, depository institution holding company, Federal
Reserve bank, or Federal home loan bank; or

“(B) hold stock in any insured depository institution or
depository institution holding company.

*(3) TIFICATION.—Upon taking office, each member of the
Board of Directors shall certify under oath that such member
has complied with this subsection and such certification shall be
filed with the secretary of the Board of Directors.”’.

(b) TRANSITION PROVISION.— 12 USC 1812

(1) CHarrpERSON.—Notwithstanding any provision of section 2 n0te.
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the Chairman of the
Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
on the date of the enactment of the Financial Institutions
Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 may continue
to serve as the irperson until the end of the term to which
such Chairman was appointed.

(2) Mempers.—Notwithstanding any provision of section 2 of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the appointed member of
the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration on the date of the enactment of the Financial Institu-
tions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 who is not
oo Chairman shall continue to serve in office until the earlier
o —

(A) the end of the term to which such member was
appointed; or

(B) February 28, 1993,

except that such member may continue to serve after the end of
such term until a successor has been appointed and qualified.

(3) APPOINTMENTS BEFORE MARCH 1, 1993.—Notwithstanding
any provision of section 2 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act,
the term of any member appointed to the Board of Directors of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation before February 28,
103 STAT. 190 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG, 9, 1989

— (including the term of any Chairperson), shall end on such
ate.

SEC. 204. DEFINITIONS.

(a) DEFINITIONS OF BANK AND RELATED TERMS.—Section 3(a) of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(a)) is amended to read
as follows:

“(a) DEFINITIONS OF BANK AND RELATED TERMS.—

“(1) Banx.—The term ‘bank’—

“(A) means any national bank, State bank, and District
bank, and any Federal branch and insured branch;
“(B) includes any former savings association that—
fe has converted from a savings association charter;
an
“(ii) is a Savings Association Insurance Fund
member.

“(2) STATE BANK.—The term ‘State bank’ means any bank,
banking association, trust company, savings bank, industrial
bank (or similar depository institution which the Board of
Directors finds to be operating substantially in the same
= ra as an industrial bank), or other benkcieae institution
which—

“(A) is engaged in the business of receiving deposits,
other than trust funds (as defined in this section); and
“(B) is incorporated under the laws of any State or which
is operating under the Code of Law for the District of
Columbia (except a national bank),
including any cooperative bank or other unincorporated bank
the deposits of which were insured by the Corporation on the
day before the date of the enactment of the Financial Institu-
tions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989.

“(3) Srare.—The term ‘State’ means any State of the United
States, the District of Columbia, any territory of the United
States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Terri-
tory of the Pacific Islands, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern
Mariana Islands.

“(4) District BANK.—The term ‘District bank’ means any
State bank operating under the Code of Law of the District of
Columbia.

(b) DerrniTiION oF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS AND RELATED TERMS.—
Section 3(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b))
is amended to read as follows:

“(b) DEFINITION OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS AND RELATED TERMS.—

“(1) SAVINGS ASSOCIATION.—The term ‘savings association’
means—

“(A) any Federal savings association;

“(B) any State savings association; and

“(C) any corporation (other than a bank) that the Board
of Directors and the Director of the Office of Thrift Super-
vision jointly determine to be operating in substantially the
same manner as a savings association.

“(2) FEDERAL SAVINGS ASSOCIATION.—The term ‘Federal sav-
ings association’ means any Federal savings association or Fed-
eral savings bank which is chartered under section 5 of the
Home Owners’ Loan Act.

“(8) STATE SAVINGS ASSOCIATION.—The term ‘State savings
association’ means—
PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 191

“(A) any building and loan association, savings and loan
association, or homestead association; or
“(B) any cooperative bank (other than a cooperative bank
which is a State bank as defined in subsection (a\2)),
which is o ized and operating according to the laws of the
State (as de ed in subsection (aX3)) in which it is chartered or
° ar

(c) Derintrions RELATING TO Deposrrory INstrruTIONS.—Section
3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)) is
amended to read as follows:

“(c) DeFINITIONS RELATING TO Deposrrory INSTITUTIONS.—

“(1) DEPosIroRY INSTITUTION.—The term ‘depository institu-
tion’ means any bank or savings association.

“(2) INSURED DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION.—The term ‘insured
depository institution’ means any bank or savings association
the Cag mag of which are sneuand by the Corporation pursuant
to this Act.

“(3) INSTITUTIONS INCLUDED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.—The term
‘insured depository institution’ includes any uninsured branch
or agency of a ey bank or a commercial lending company
owned or controlled by a foreign bank for purposes of section 8
of this Act.

“(4) FEDERAL DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION.—The term ‘Federal
depository institution’ means any national bank, any Federal
savings association, and any Federal branch.

“(5) STATE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION.—The term ‘State deposi-
tory institution’ means any State bank, any State savings
eee and any insured branch which is not a Federal

ranch.”’.

(d) Derinrr1ions RELATING TO MEMBER BANKs.—Section 3(d) of the
sa Deposit Insurance (12 U.S.C. 1813(d)) is amended to read as

ollows:

“(d) DEFINITIONS RELATING TO MEMBER BANKS.—

“(1) NATIONAL MEMBER BANK.—The term ‘national member
bank’ means any national bank which is a member of the
Federal Reserve System.

“(2) STATE MEMBER BANK.—The term ‘State member bank’
means any State bank which is a member of the Federal
Reserve System.”’.

(e) DeFIntTIONS RELATING TO NONMEMBER BANKs.—Section 3(e) of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(e)) is amended to
read as follows:

“(e) DEFINITIONS RELATING TO NONMEMBER BANKS.—

“(1) NATIONAL NONMEMBER BANK.—The term ‘national
nonmember bank’ means any national bank which—

“(A) is located in any territory of the United States,
Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, or
the Northern Mariana Islands; and

“(B) is not a member of the Federal Reserve System.

“(2) STATE NONMEMBER BANK.—The term ‘State nonmember
bank’ means any State bank which is not a member of the
Federal Reserve System.”.

(f) ApprTIONAL AMENDMENTS TO DeEFINITIONS.—Section 3 of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) is amended—

(1) in subsection (j), by inserting “or savings association” after
“of a bank”;

(2) in subsection ()—
103 STAT. 192 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(A) by inserting “or savings association” after “a bank”,
“the bank’, “another bank”, “receiving bank”, and “such
bank” each place such terms appear;

(B) by inserting “or savings association’s” after the word

“bank’s” each place such term appears;

(C) in paragraph (5), by inserting “, Director of the Office
of —— Supervision,” after “Comptroller of the Currency”;
an

(D) in paragraph (5A), by striking out “and the Virgin
Islands” and inserting in lieu thereof “the Virgin Islands,
and the Northern Mariana Islands”;

(3) in subsection (m)—

(A) in paragraph (1)—

(i) by striking out “the bank” and inserting in lieu
thereof “the depository institution”; and

(ii) by inserting “of the Northern Mariana Islands,”
after “Virgin Islands,”; and

(B) in paragraph (2), by striking out “ther” and inserting
in lieu thereof “term”;

(4) by striking out subsection (q) and inserting in lieu thereof
the following:

“(q) APPROPRIATE FEDERAL BANKING AGENCY.—The term ‘appro-
priate Federal banking agency’ means—

“(1) the Comptroller of the Currency, in the case of any
national banking association, any District bank, or any Federal
branch or agency of a foreign bank;

“(2) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in
the case of—

“(A) any State member insured bank (except a District

ank),

“(B) any branch or agency of a foreign bank with respect
to any provision of the Federal Reserve Act which is made
applicable under the International Banking Act of 1978,

‘(C) any foreign bank which does not operate an insured
branch,

“(D) any agency or commercial lending company other
than a Federal agency,

“(E) supervisory or regulatory proceedings arising from
the authority given to the Board of Governors under section
7(c\1) of the International Banking Act of 1978, including
such popcoesings under the Depository Institutions Super-

i ct, an
) any bank holding company and any subsidiary of a
bank holding company (other than a bank);

“(3) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in the case of
a State nonmember insured bank (except a District bank), or a

foreign bank having an insured branch; and
“(4) the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision in the case
of any savings association or any savings and loan holding

company.
Under the rule set forth in this subsection, more than one agency
may be an sf a ee Federal banking agency with respect to any
given institution.
(5) b ceviiioers =a subsection (t) and inserting in lieu thereof
the following new subsection:
“(t) IncLUDES, INCLUDING.—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 193

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The terms ‘includes’ and ‘including’ shall
not be construed more restrictively than the ordinary usage of
such terms so as to exclude any other thing not referred to or
described.

“(2) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Paragraph (1) shall not be con-
strued as creating any inference that the term ‘includes’ or
‘including’ in any other provision of Federal law may be deemed
to exclude any other hing not referred to or described.”;

(6) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsections:

“(u) INSTITUTION-AFFILIATED Party.—The term ‘institution-affili-
ated party’ means—

“(1) any director, officer, employee, or controlling stockholder
(other than a bank holding company) of, or agent for, an insured
depository institution;

‘(2) any other person who has filed or is required to file a
change-in-contro] notice with the appropriate Federal banking
agency under section 7(j);

“(3) any shareholder (other than a bank holding company),
consultant, joint venture partner, and any other person as
determined by the appropriate Federal banking agency (by
regulation or case-by-case) who participates in the conduct of
the affairs of an insured depository institution; and

“(4) any independent contractor (including any attorney, ap-
praiser, or accountant) who knowingly or essly participates

in—

“(A) any violation of any law or regulation;

“(B) any breach of fiduciary duty; or

“(C) any unsafe or unsound practice,
which caused or is likely to cause more than a minimal finan-
cial loss to, or a significant adverse effect on, the insured
depository institution.

“(v) VioLaTion.—The term ‘violation’ includes any action (alone
or with another or others) for or toward causing, bringing about,
participating in, counseling, or aiding or abetting a violation.

“(w) NITIONS RELATING TO HoLDING COMPANIES.—

“(1) DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION HOLDING COMPANY.—The term
‘depository institution holding company’ means a bank holding
company or a savings and loan holding company.

“(2) BANK HOLDING COMPANY.—The term ‘bank holding com-
vans has the meaning given to such term in section 2 of the

Holding Company Act of 1956.

“(3) SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANY.—The term ‘sav-
angs and loan holding company’ has the meaning given to such
term in section 10 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act.

“(4) Sussip1ary.—The term ‘ idiary’—

“(A) means any company which is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by another company; and

“(B) includes any service corporation owned in whole or
in part by an insured depository institution or any subsidi-
ary of such a service corporation.

“(5) ContrroLt.—The term ‘control’ has the meaning given to
— term in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of

“(6) AFFILIATE.—The term ‘affiliate’ has the meaning given to
—— term in section 2(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of

“(x) DEFINITIONS RELATING TO DEFAULT.—
103 STAT. 194

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(1) Derautt.—The term ‘default’ means, with respect to an
insured depository institution, any adjudication or other official
determination by any court of competent jurisdiction, the appro-
priate Federal banking agency, or other public authority pursu-
ant to which a conservator, receiver, or other legal custodian is
appointed for an insured depository institution or, in the case of
a foreign bank having an insured branch, for such branch.

“(2) IN DANGER OF DEFAULT.—The term ‘in danger of default’
means an insured depository institution with respect to which
(or in the case of a foreign bank having an insured branch, with
respect to such insured branch) the appropriate Federal bank-
ing agency or State chartering authority has advised the Cor-
poration (or, if the appropriate Federal banking agency is the
Corporation, the Corporation has determined) that—

“(A) in the opinion of such agency or authority—

“(i) the depository institution or insured branch is
not likely to be able to meet the demands of the
institution’s or branch’s depositors or pay the institu-
tion’s or branch’s obligations in the normal course of
business; and

“(ii) there is no reasonable prospect that the deposi-
tory institution or insured branch will be able to meet
such demands or pay such obligations without Federal
assistance; or

“(B) in the opinion of such agency or authority—

“(i) the depository institution or insured branch has
incurred or is likely to incur losses that will deplete all
or substantially all of its capital; and

“(ii) there is no reasonable prospect that the ca capital
of the depository institution or insured | —S i
replenished without Federal assistance.”

SEC. 205. INSURED SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.

Section 4 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1814) is

amended—

(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking out “(a) Every bank” and inserting in lieu
thereof the following:

“(a) CONTINUATION OF INSURANCE.—

“(1) Banxs.—Each bank”; and
(B) by adding at the end thereof the following new

ph:

“(B) SAVIN SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—Each savings association the ac-
counts of which were insured by the Federal Savings and Loan
Insurance Corporation on the day before the date of the enact-
ment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and
Enforcement Act of 1989, shall be, without application or ap-
proval, an insured depository institution.”;

(2) in subsection (b)—

(A) by inserting after the Ist sentence the following new
sentences: ‘‘Any application or notice for membership or to
commence or resume business shall be promptly provided
by the appropriate Federal banking agency to the Corpora-
tion and the Corporation shall have a reasonable period of
time to provide comments on such application or notice.
Any comments submitted by the Corporation to the appro-
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG., 9, 1989 103 STAT. 195

priate Federal banking agency shall be considered by such
agency.”
(B) oe striking out the penultimate and the last sen-
ae and
striking out “(b) Every national bank” and insert-
tort in lieu thereof “(b) CertiricaTion By OTHER BANKING
AGEnctes.—Every national bank”; and
(3) by striking out subsection (c) and inserting in lieu thereof
the following new subsections:

“(c) CONTINUATION OF INSURANCE AFTER CONVERSION.—Subject to

section 5(d)—
“(1) any State saponins institution which results from the
conversion of any ins Federal depository institution; and
“(2) any Federal depository institution which results from the
conversion of any insured State depository institution,
shall continue as an insured depository institution.

“(d) CONTINUATION OF INSURANCE AFTER MERGER OR CONSOLIDA-
TION.—Any State depository institution or any Federal depository
institution which results from the merger or consolidation of in-
sured depository institutions, or from the merger or consolidation of
a noninsured depository institution with an insured deposi pository
institution, shall continue as an insured depository institution.’

SEC. 206. APPLICATION PROCESS; INSURANCE FEES.

(a) In GENERAL.—Section 5 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
Onis aoe (a) Subj to th f this A
y out “(a ject @ provisions 0 ct,
any” ee in lieu thereof the following:
“(a) CATION FOR INSURANCE.—
“(1) NATIONAL AND STATE NONMEMBER BANKS; STATE SAVINGS
ASSOCIATIONS.—Any”’;
(2) in the 1st sentence of subsection (aX1) (as so redesignated
hor “State (1) of this subsection), Pe! striking out the comma
nonmember bank” and inserting in lieu thereof
“and State savings association,”; and
(8) in the 2nd sentence of subsection (aX1) (as so redesignated
by ph (1) of this subsection)—

(A) ) by —— out the comma after “State nonmember
bank” and inserting in lieu thereof “and State savings
association,”’;

(B) by striking out the comma after ‘ ‘such bank” and
inserting in lieu thereo “or savings association,”; and

(C) by inserting ‘ jon guvingn oenoctetion, Bat. ts She cone of
an application by 1 Stat sav association, the Corpora

the Director of the Office ‘of Thrift ia

vision of the tion’s approval of such application”
before the period at the end;

(4) by aonns at the end of subsection (a) the following new

*(2) Po Veena SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—Any Federal savings
association shall become an insured depository institution
upon—

“(A) application to the Corporation; and
“(B) receipt by the Corporation of a certificate issued to
the ration the Director which meets the require-
ments of paragraph (4),
unless insurance is denied by the Board of Directors.
103 STAT. 196

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(3) INTERIM FEDERAL SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—In the case of
any interim Federal savings association which is chartered by
the Director of the Office of Thrift oy gery and will not
open for business, such association shall be an insured deposi-
tory institution upon the issuance of such association’s charter
by the Director.

“(4) CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS.—Any certificate issued to the
Corporation under paragraph (2) s state that the Federal
savings association is authorized to transact business as a sav-
ings association and that consideration has been given to the
factors enumerated in section 6.

“(5) REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.—In reviewing any certificate and
application referred to in h (2), the Board of Directors
shall consider the factors described in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4),
and (5) of section 6 in determining whether to deny insurance.

“(6) NOTICE OF DENIAL OF APPLICATION.—If the Board of Direc-
tors, after giving due deference to the determination of the
Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision with res to such
factors, does not concur in the determination of the Director,
the Board of Directors shall promptly notify the Director that
insurance has been denied, giving specific reasons in writing for
the Corporation’s determination with reference to the factors
described in par. phs (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) of section 6, and
no insurance shall be granted.

“(7) VOTING REQUIREMENTS.—The authority of the Board of
Directors to make any determination to deny insurance under
this subsection may not be delegated by the Board of Directors
and any such determination may be made only upon a vote of %
of all members of the Board of Directo rs (excluding the Director
of the Office of Thrift Supervision).”;

(5) in subsection (b\4), by inserting “and fitness” after char-
acter;

(6) in subsection (b)—

(A) by redesignating paragraphs (5), (6), and (7) as para-
graphs (6), (7), and (8), respectively; and
) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:

“(5) the risk presented to the Bank Insurance Fund or the

vings Association Insurance Fund;’; and

(7) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsections:

“(d) INSURANCE FEEs.—

“(1) UNINSURED INSTITUTIONS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Any institution that becomes insured
by the Corporation, and any noninsured branch that be-
comes insured by the Corporation, shall pay the Corpora-
tion any fee which the Corporation may by regulation
prescribe, after giving due consideration to the need to
establish and maintain reserve ratios in the Bank Insur-
ance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund as
required by section 7.

(B) FEE CREDITED TO APPROPRIATE FUND.—The fee paid b
the depository institution shall be credited to the Bank
Insurance Fund if the es Seagends institution becomes a
Bank Insurance Fund member, and to the Savings Associa-
tion Insurance Fund if the depository institution mes a
Savings Association Insurance Fund member.

“(C) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS.—
Any depository institution that becomes an insured deposi-
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 197

7 by operation of section 4(a) shall not pay
any fee.
“(2) CONVERSIONS. —

“(A) IN GENERAL.—

“(i) PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIRED.—No insured deposi-
tory institution may participate in a conversion trans-
action without the prior approval of the Corporation.

“(ji) 5-YEAR MORATORIUM ON CONVERSIONS.—Except as
provided in subparagraph (C), the Corporation may not
approve any conversion transaction before the end of
the 5-year period beginning on the date of the enact-
ment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989.

“(B) CONVERSION DEFINED.—For purposes of this para-
graph, the term ‘conversion transaction’ means—

“(i) the change of status of an insured de apetons
institution from a Bank Insurance Fund m
Savings Association Insurance Fund member or from
Savings Association Insurance Fund member to a Bank
Insurance Fund member;

“(ii) the merger or consolidation of a Bank Insurance
Fund member with a Savings Association Insurance
Fund member;

“(iii) the assumption of any liability by—

“() any Bank Insurance Fund member to pay
any deposits of a Savings Association Insurance
Fund member; or

“(I any Savings Association Insurance Fund
member to pay any deposits of a Bank Insurance
Fund member;

“(iv) the transfer of assets of—

“(I) any Bank Insurance Fund member to any
Savi Association Insurance Fund member in
consideration of the assumption of liabilities for
Pi rtion of the deposits of such Bank Insurance

ihr erm ld or

“(ID any Savings Association Insurance Fund
member to any Bank Insurance Fund member in
consideration of the assumption of liabilities for
any portion of the deposits of such Savings Associa-
tion Insurance Fund member.

“(C) APPROVAL DURING MORATORIUM.—The Corporation
may approve a conversion transaction at any time if—

“(i) the conversion transaction affects an insubstan-
tial portion, as determined by the Corporation, of the
total deposits of each depository institution participat-
ing in the conversion transaction;

ii) the conversion occurs in connection with the
acquisition of a Savings Association Insurance Fund
member in default or in danger of default, and the
Corporation determines that the estimated financial
benefits to the regs Association Insurance Fund or
Resolution Trust ps equal or exceed the Cor-
poration’s estimate of loss of assessment income to such
insurance fund over the remaining balance of the 5-
year period referred to in sibpaciivanh (A), and the
103 STAT. 198

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

Resolution Trust Corporation concurs in the Corpora-
tion’s determination; or

“(iii) the conversion occurs in connection with the
acquisition of a Bank Insurance Fund member in de-
fault or in danger of default and the Corporation deter-
mines that the estimated financial benefits to the Bank
Insurance Fund equal or exceed the Corporation’s esti-
mate of the loss of assessment income to the insurance
fund over the remaining balance of the 5-year period
referred to in subparagraph (A).

“(D) CERTAIN TRANSFERS DEEMED TO AFFECT INSUBSTAN-
TIAL PORTION OF TOTAL DEPOSITS.—For purposes of subpara-
graph (Ci), any conversion transaction shall be deemed to
affect an insubstantial portion of the total deposits of an
insured depository institution, to the extent the aggregate
amount of the total deposits transferred in such transaction
and in all conversion transactions occurring after the date
of the enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 does not exceed 35
percent of the lesser of—

(i) the amount which is equal to the sum of—
“(I) the total deposits of such insured depository
institution on May 1, 1989; and
“(II) the total amount of net interest credited to
the depository institution’s deposits during the
period beginning on May 1, 1989, and ending on
the date of the transfer of deposits in connection
with such transaction; or
“(ii) the amount which is equal to the total deposits
of such insured depository institution on the date of the
transfer of deposits in connection with such trans-
action.

“(E) Exir AND ENTRANCE FEES.—Each insured depository
institution participating in a conversion transaction shall

“(i) in the case of a conversion transaction in which
the resulting or acquiring depository institution is not
a Savings Association Insurance Fund member, an exit
fee (in an amount to be determined and assessed in
accordance with subparagraph (F)) which—

“(TD shall be deposited in the Savings Association
Insurance Fund; or

“(II) shall be paid to the Financing Corporation,
if the Secretary of the Treasury determines that
the Financing Corporation has exhausted all other
sources of funding for interest payments on the
obligations of the Financing Corporation and
orders that such fees be paid to the Financing
Corporation;

“(ii) in the case of a conversion transaction in which
the resulting or acquiring depository institution is not
a Bank Insurance Fund member, an exit fee in an
amount to be determined by the Corporation (and as-
sessed in accordance with subparagraph (F\ii)) which
shall be deposited in the Bank Insurance Fund; and
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 199

“(iii) an entrance fee in an amount to be determined
by the Corporation (and assessed in accordance with
sub aph (F\Xii)), except that—

“(1) in the case of a conversion transaction in
which the resulting or acquiring depository institu-
tion is a Bank Insurance Fund member, the fee
shall be the approximate amount which the Cor-
poration calculates as n to prevent dilu-
hon of tiie Bank Enekranes Paled, aid thal be paid
to the Bank Insurance Fund; and

Bid = ——_ of a ss transaction in
which the resulting or acquiring depository institu-
tion is a Savings Association Insurance Fund
member, the fee shall be the approximate amount
which the Corporation calculates as necessary to
prevent dilution of the Savings Association Insur-
ance Fund, and shall be paid to the Savings
Association Insurance Fund.

“(F) ASSESSMENT OF EXIT AND ENTRANCE FEES.—

“(j) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF EXIT FEES.—

“(Il) CONVERSIONS BEFORE JANUARY 1, 1997.—In
the case of any exit fee assessed under subpara-
graph (Ei) for any conversion transaction con-
summated before January 1, 1997, the amount of
such fee shall be determined jointly by the Cor-
poration and the Secretary of the Treasury.

“(II) ASSESSMENTS AFTER DECEMBER, 31, 1996.—In
the case of any exit fee assessed under subpara-
graph (Ei) for any conversion transaction con-
summated after December 31, 1996, the amount of
such fee shall be determined by the Corporation.

“(ii) ProcepurEes.—The Corporation shall prescribe, Regulations.
by regulation, procedures for assessing any exit or
entrance fee under subparagraph (E).

“(G) CHARTER CONVERSION OF SAIF MEMBERS.—This
subsection shall not be construed as prohibiting any savings
association which is a Savings Association Insurance d
member from converting to a bank charter during the

riod described in sub ph (AXii) if the resultin
remains a Savings iation Insurance Fun
member.

“(3) OPTIONAL CONVERSION THROUGH MERGER.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding paragraph (2A),
any bank holding company that controls any savings
association may merge or consolidate the assets and liabil-
ities of such savings association with, or transfer such
assets and liabilities to, any subsidi bank which is a
Bank Insurance Fund m with the approval of the
appropriate Federal banking agency and the of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System.

“(B) ASSESSMENTS BY SAIF ON DEPOSITS ATTRIBUTABLE TO
FORMER SAVINGS ASSOCIATION.—That portion of the average
assessment base of any subsidiary bank referred to in
subparagraph (A) for any semiannual period which is equal
to the adjusted attributable deposit amount (determined
under subparagraph (C) with to the transaction
described in subparagraph (A)) —
103 STAT. 200

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(i) be subject to assessment at the assessment rate
applicable under section 7 for Savings Association
Insurance Fund members;

“(ii) shall not be taken into account for purposes of
any assessment under section 7 for Bank Insurance
Fund members; and

“(iii) shall be treated as deposits which are insured by
the Savings Association Insurance Fund.

“(C) DETERMINATION OF ADJUSTED ATTRIBUTABLE DEPOSIT
AMOUNT.—The adjusted attributable deposit amount which
shall be taken into account by any bank subsidiary referred
to in sub ph (A) for purposes of determining the
amount of the assessment under subparagraph (Bi) for any
——— period is the amount which is equal to the sum
Co —

“(i) the amount of any deposits acquired by such
bank subsidiary in connection with any transaction
described in subparagraph (A) (as determined at the
time of such transaction);

“Gi) the total of the amounts determined under
clause (iii) for semiannual periods preceding the semi-
annual period for which the determination is being
made under this oral. hh; and
~ “Gii) the amount by which the sum of the amounts

i in clauses (i) and (ii) would have in
during the preceding semiannual period (other than
any semiannual period beginning before the date of
such transaction) if such increase occurred at a rate
equal to the greater of—

““(T) an annual rate of 7 percent; or

“(I]) the annual rate of growth of deposits of such
subsidiary bank minus the amount of any deposits
acquired through the acquisition, in whole or in
part, of a Insurance Fund member during
such semiannual period.

“(D) Deposit OF ASSESSMENT.—The amount of the assess-
ment referred to in subparagraph (B\ji) shall be deposited in
the Savings Association Insurance Fund.

“(E) CoNDITIONS FOR FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD APPROVAL.—
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may
not approve any application by any bank holding company
to engage in any transaction described in subparagraph (A)
unless such Board determines that—

“(i) the amount which is equal to the aggregate
amount of the total assets of all depository institution
subsidiaries of such bank holding company is not less
than the amount which is equal to 200 percent of the
total assets of the savings association (at the time of the
proposed transaction);

“(ii) the bank holding company and all bank subsidi-
aries of such holding company will meet all applicable
capital standards upon consummation of the proposed
transaction;

“(iii) the transaction is not in substance the acquisi-
tion of any Bank Insurance Fund member bank by any
Savings Association Insurance Fund member;

“(iv) in the case of any transaction which occurs—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 201

“(I) during the 1-year period beginning on the
date of the enactment of the Financial Institutions
Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989,
the savings association had tangible capital of less
than 4 — during the preceding quarter; and

“(ID during the 1-year period beginning after the
end of the 1-year period referred to in subclause (D,
the savings association had tangible capital of less
than 5 percent during the p ing quarter; and

“(v) the transaction would rag wi e require-
ments of section 3(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act
of 1956 if, at the time of such transaction, the savings
association were a State bank which the bank holding
company was applying to acquire.

“(F) ALLOCATION OF COSTS IN EVENT OF DEFAULT.—If any
subsidi bank referred to in renga (A) is in de-
fault or r of default at any time before this paragraph
ceases to apply, any loss incurred by the Corporation shall
be allocated between the Bank Insurance d and the
Savings Association Insurance Fund, in amounts reflecting
the amount of insured deposits of such bank subsidiary
(other than the adjusted attributable deposit amount)
which is insured by the Bank Insurance d and the
adjusted attributable deposit amount which is insured by
the Savings Association Insurance Fund pursuant to

ey (BXiii).
‘(G) SUBSEQUENT APPROVAL OF CONVERSION TRANS-
ACTION.—This paragraph shall cease to apply if—

“(i) after the end of the 5-year period referred to in

Ih (2A), the Corporation approves an applica-
tion by ¢ = lank deatiinal it ack ph (A) to treat
the transaction described in subparagraph (A) as a
conversion transaction; and

“(ii) such bank pays the amount of any exit and
entrance fee assessed by the Corporation under para-

graph (2E) with respect to such transaction.
“(e) Liapiuity OF CoMMONLY CONTROLLED Deposrrory InstirTu-

TIONS.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—

“(A) LIABILITY ESTABLISHED.—Any insured depository
institution shall be liable for any loss incurred by the
Corporation, or any loss which the poof agar reasonably
anticipates incurring, after the date of the enactment of the
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement
Act of 1989 in connection with—

“(i) the default of a commonly controlled insured
depository institution; or

‘ii) any assistance provided by the Corporation to
any commonly controlled insured depository institution
in danger of default.

“(B) PAYMENT UPON NOTICE.—An insured depository
institution shall pay the amount of any liability to the
Corporation under subparagraph (A) upon receipt of writ-
ten notice Ly the Corporation in accordance with this
subsection.

“(C) NoricE REQUIRED TO BE PROVIDED WITHIN 2 YEARS OF
Loss.—No insured depository institution shall be liable to
103 STAT. 202 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

the Corporation under subparagraph (A) if written notice
with respect to such liability is not received by such institu-
tion before the end of the 2-year period beginning on the
date the Corporation incurred the loss.

“(2) AMOUNT OF COMPENSATION; PROCEDURES.—

“(A) Use oF ESTIMATES.—When an insured depository
institution is in default or requires assistance to prevent
default, the Corporation shall—

“@) in good faith, estimate the amount of the loss the
Corporation will incur from such default or assistance;

“(i) if, with respect to such insured depository
institution, there is more than 1 commonly controlled
insured depository institution, estimate the amount of
each such commonly controlled depository institution’s
share of such liability; and

“(iii) advise each commonly controlled depository
institution of the Corporation’s estimate of the amount
of such institution’s liability for such losses.

“(B) PROCEDURES; IMMEDIATE PAYMENT.—The Corpora-
tion, after consultation with the Sprecuniste Federal bank-
rn Pipes and the appropriate State chartering agency,
8. —

“(i) on a case-by-case basis, establish the procedures
and schedule under which any insured deposito
institution shall reimburse the Corporation for suc
institution’s liability under paragraph (1) in connection
with any commonly controlled insured depository
institution; or

“(ii) require any insured depository institution to
make immediate payment of the amount of such
institution’s liability under paragraph (1) in connection
with any commonly controlled insured depository
institution.

“(C) Prioriry.—The liability of any insured es ene
institution under this subsection s have priority wit
respect to other obligations and liabilities as follows:

“(ij) Superiority.—The liability shall be superior to
the following obligations and liabilities of the deposi-
tory institution:

“() Any obligation to shareholders arising as a
result of their status as shareholders (including
any depository institution holding company or any
shareholder or creditor of such company).

“(1) Any obligation or liability owed to any affili-
ate of the depository institution (including any
other insured depository institution), other than
any secured obligation which was secured as of
May 1, 1989.

“(ii) SUBORDINATION.—The sere shall be subordi-
nate in right and payment to the following obligations
and liabilities of the depository institution:

“) Any deposit liability (which is not a liability
described in clause (iXID).

“(I Any secured obligation, other than any
obligation owed to any iate of the depository
institution (including any other insured deposito
institution) which was secured after May 1, 1989.
PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 203

“(III) Any other general or senior liability (which
is not a liability described in clause (i)).
“(IV) Any obligation subordinated to depositors
or other general creditors (which is not an obliga-
tion described in clause (i)).
“(D) ADJUSTMENT OF ESTIMATED PAYMENT.—

“(ij) OVERPAYMENT.—If the amount of compensation
estimated by and paid to the Corporation by 1 or more
such commonly controlled depository institutions is
greater than the actual loss incurred by the Corpora-
tion, the Corporation shall reimburse each such com-
monly controlled depository institution its pro rata
share of any overpayment.

“(ii) UNDERPAYMENT.—If the amount of compensa-
tion estimated by and paid to the Corporation by 1 or
more such commonly controlled depository institutions
is less than the actual loss incurred by the Corporation,
the Corporation shall redetermine in its discretion the
liability of each such commonly controlled Gor gear 4
institution to the Corporation and shall ire eac
such commonly controlled deposi institution to
make payment of any additional liability to the
Corporation.

“(3) Review.—
“(A) JupiciaL.—Actions of the Corporation shall be
roeerie pursuant to chapter 7 of title 5, United States

e.

“(B) ADMINISTRATIVE.—The Corporation shall prescribe Regulations.
regulations and establish administrative procedures which
provide for a hearing on the record for the review of—

“(i) the amount of any loss incurred by the Corpora-
tion in connection with any insured depository institu-
tion;

“(ii) the liability of individual commonly controlled
depository institutions for the amount of such loss; and

(iii) the schedule of payments to be made by such
commonly controlled depository institutions.

“(4) LIMITATION ON RIGHTS OF PRIVATE PARTIES.—To the extent
the exercise of any right or power of any person would impair
the ability of any insured depository institution to perform such
institution’s obligations under this subsection—

“(i) the obligations of such insured depository institu-
tion shall supersede such right or power; and

“(ii) no court may give effect to such right or power
with respect to such insured depository institution.

“(5) WAIVER AUTHORITY.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation, in its discretion, may
exempt any insured depository institution from the provi-
sions of this subsection if the Corporation determines that
such exemption is in the best interests of the Bank Insur-
ance Fund or the Savings Association Insurance Fund.

“(B) Conprrion.—During the period any exemption
granted to any insured depository institution under
subparagraph (A) or (C) is in effect, such insured depository
institution and all other insured depository institution
affiliates of such depository institution shall comply fully
103 STAT. 204 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

with the restrictions of sections 23A and 23B of the Federal
Reserve Act without regard to section 23A(dX1).

“(C) LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation may, in its discre-
tion, exempt any limited partnership and any affiliate
of any limited partnership (other than any insured
> tory institution which is a majority owned

idiary of such partners tah part from the provisions of
this subsection if such limi nership or affiliate
has filed a registration statement at with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on or before April 10, 1989,
indicating that as of the date of such filing such part-
nership intended to acquire 1 or more insured deposi-
tory institutions.

“(ii) REVIEW AND NoTIcE.—Within 10 business days
after the date of submission of any request for an
exemption under this Pini. together with such
information as shall be reasonably requested by the
Corporation, the Corporation shall make a determina-
tion on the request and shall so advise the applicant.

(6) 5-YEAR TRANSITION RULE. Fits the 5-year period begin-
ning on the date of the enactment of Financial Institutions
Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989—

“(A) no Savings Association Insurance Fund member
shall have any liability to the Corporation under this
subsection arising out of assistance provided by the Cor-
poration or any loss incurred by the Corporation as a result
of the default of a Bank Insurance Fund member which was
acquired by such Savings Association Insurance Fund
member or any affiliate of such member before the date of
the enactment of such Act; and

“(B) no Bank Insurance Fund member shall have such
liability with respect to assistance provided by or loss in-
curred by the Corporation as a result of the default of a
Savings Association Insurance Fund member which was
acquired by such Bank Insurance Fund member or any
affiliate of such member before the date of the enactment of
such Act.

“(7) EXCLUSION FOR INSTITUTIONS ACQUIRED IN DEBT COLLEC-
TIONS.—Any depository institution shall not be treated as
commonly controlled, for purposes of this subsection, during the
5-year period beginning on the date of an acquisition described
in subparagraph (A) or such longer period as the Corporation
may determine after written application by the acquirer, if—

“(A) 1 depository institution controls another by virtue of
ownership of voting shares acquired in securing or collect-
ing a debt previously eal best in good faith; and

‘(B) during the period beginning on the date of the
enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989 and ending upon the expira-
tion of the exclusion, the controlling bank and all other
insured depository institution affiliates of such controlling
bank comp y fully with the restrictions of sections 23A and
23B of the Federal Reserve Act, without regard to section
23A(dX1) of such Act, in transactions with the acquired
insured depository institution.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 205

“(8) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN FSLIC ASSISTED INSTITUTIONS.—No
depository institution shall have any liability to the Corporation
under this subsection as the result of the default of, or assist-
ance provided with respect to, an insured depository institution
which is an affiliate of such depository institution if—

“(A) such affiliate was receiving cash payments from the
Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation under an
assistance agreement or note entered into before the date of
the enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recov-
ery, and Enforcement Act of 1989;

“(B) the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corpora-
tion, or such other entity which has succeeded to the pay-
ment obligations of such Corporation with respect to such
assistance agreement or note, is unable to continue such

payments; and

‘(C©) such affiliate—

“(i) is in default or in need of assistance solely as a
result of the failure to meet the payment obligations
referred to in subparagraph (B); and

“(ii) is not otherwise in breach of the terms of any
assistance agreement or note which would authorize
the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation
or such other successor entity, pursuant to the terms of
such assistance agreement or note, to refuse to make
such payments.

“(9) COMMONLY CONTROLLED DEFINED.—For purposes of this
subsection, depository institutions are commonly controlled if—

“(A) such institutions are controlled by the same deposi-
tory institution holding company (including any company
required to file reports pursuant to section 4(fX6) of the
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956); or

“(B) 1 depository institution is controlled by another
depository institution.”’.

(b) Newty Insurep Turirr Provision.—Any insured depository 12 USC 1815
institution (as defined in section 3(c\2) of the Federal Deposit Insur- note.
ance Act, as added by section 204(c) of this Act)—

(1) which was an insured institution (as defined in section
401(a) of the National Housing Act, as in effect before the date
of the enactment of this Act) on the day before the date of the
enactment of this Act;

(2) the board of directors of which determined, before April 1,
1987, to terminate such association’s status as an insured
institution (as so defined) as evidenced in sworn minutes of the
board of directors meeting held before such date;

(3) had insured deposits of less than $11,000,000 on April 1,
1987; and

(4) was an insured institution (as so defined) for less than 1
year as of April 1, 1987,

may cease to be a Savings Association Insurance Fund member and
become a Bank Insurance Fund member at any time during the 2-
year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act
without the approval of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
under section 5(d\2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (as added
by subsection (a) of this section) and without incurring any liability
for any exit or entrance fee imposed under such section 5(d\2).
103 STAT. 206

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

SEC. 207. INSURABILITY FACTORS.

Section 6 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1816) is

amended to read as follows:
“SEC. 6. FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.

“The factors that are required, under section 4, to be considered in

connection with, and enumerated in, any certificate issued pursuant
to section 4 and that are required, under section 5, to be considered
by the Board of Directors in connection with any determination by
such Board pursuant to section 5 are the following:

“(1) The financial history and condition of the depository
institution.

“(2) The adequacy of the depository institution’s capital struc-
ture.

“(3) The future earnings prospects of the depository institu-
tion.

“(4) The general character and fitness of the management of
the depository institution.

“(5) The risk presented by such depository institution to the
seat Insurance Fund or the Savings Association Insurance

“(6) The convenience and needs of the community to be served
by such depository institution.

“(7) Whether the depository institution’s corporate powers are
consistent with the purposes of this Act.”’.

SEC. 208. ASSESSMENTS.

Section 7 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817) is

amended—

(1) in subsection (a\(2)—

(A) by inserting “, the Director of the Office of Thrift
Supervision, the Federal Housing Finance Board, any
Federal home loan bank,” after “Comptroller of the
Currency” each place such term appears (except after
“Comptroller of the Currency,”);

(B) by inserting “the Director of the Office of Thrift
Supervision, the Federal Housing Finance Board, any Fed-
eral home loan bank,” after “Comptroller of the Cur-
rency,”;

(C) by striking out “either” in the lst sentence and
inserting in lieu thereof “any”;

(D) in the last sentence of subparagraph (A), by inserting
“or savings associations” after ‘

(E) by striking out “State nonmember bank (except a
District bank)” and inserting in lieu thereof “depository
institution”; and

(F) by striking out subparagraph (B) and inserting the
following:

“(B) ADDITIONAL REPORTS.—The Board of Directors may from
time to time require any insured depository institution to file
such additional reports as the Corporation, after agreement
with the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of
the Federal rve System, and the Director of the Office of
Thrift Supervision, | as appropriate, may deem advisable for
insurance purposes

(2) in subsection (aX3)—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(A) by striking out “Each insured State nonmember
bank” and all that follows through “four reports” and
inserting the following: “Each insured depository institu-
tion shall make to the appropriate Federal ing agency
4 reports”;

(B) by striking out “bank” each place such term appears
in the 2nd, 5th, and 6th sentences and inserting in lieu
thereof “depository institution”;

(C) Py striking out “insured national, District” and all
that follows through “member bank” in the 7th sentence
and inserting in lieu thereof “insured depository institu-
tion”; and

(D) by inserting “or savings associations” after “banks”
in the last sentence;

(3) in subsection (aX4), by striking out “bank”, “bank’s’”, and
“banks” each place such terms Be rod (except in “foreign

“depository institution”,

et and inserting in lieu the
“ e

one institution’s”, and “depository institutions”, respec-
tively;
(4) by striking out paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) and

inserting the following:

“(1) ASSESSMENT RATES.—
“(A) ANNUAL ASSESSMENT RATES PRESCRIBED.—

“(i) The Corporation shall set assessment rates for
insured depository institutions annually.

“(ii) The Corporation shall fix the annual assessment
rate of Bank neufenee Fund members independently
from the annual assessment rate for Savings Associa-
tion Insurance Fund members.

“(iii) The Corporation shall, by September 30 of each
year, announce the assessment rates for the succeeding
calendar year.

“(B) DESIGNATED RESERVE RATIO DEFINED.—

“(i) The designated reserve ratio of the Bank Insur-

ance Fund for each year shall be—
“(I) 1.25 percent of estimated insured deposits; or
“(ID such higher percentage of estimated insured
deposits, not ex ing 1.50 percent, as the Board
of Directors determines for that year to be justified
by circumstances that raise a significant risk of
ag tial future losses to the Insurance

“(ii) The designated reserve ratio of the Savings
Association Insurance Fund for each year shall be—

“(I) 1.25 percent of estimated insured deposits; or

“(ID such higher percentage of estimated insured
a ex ing 1.50 percent, as the Board
of Di rs determines for that year to be justified
by circumstances that raise a significant risk of
substantial future losses to the Savings Association
Insurance Fund.

“(iii) The Board of Directors shall—

“(I) maintain, reserves in the Bank Insurance
Fund received pursuant to clause (iXII) as Supple-
mental Reserves in the Bank Insurance Fund;

“(II) allocate each calendar quarter to an Earn-
ings Participation Account in the Bank Insurance

103 STAT. 207
103 STAT. 208

Securities.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

Fund the investment income earned by the Bank
Insurance Fund on such Supplemental rves in

the preceding calendar quarter;

= distribute gic Teraings Participation Ac-
count at the conclusion of each calendar year to
Bank Insurance Fund members; and

“(IV) distribute such Supplemental Reserves to
Bank Insurance Fund members if and to the extent
the gf tobeeaan determines that such Supple-
mental rves are not needed to satisfy the pro-
jected designated reserve ratio for the next
succeeding calendar year.

“(iv) The Board of Directors shall—

“(D maintain reserves in the Savings Association
Insurance Fund received pursuant to clause (iiXID
as Supplemental Reserves in the Savings Associa-
tion Insurance Fund;

“(II) allocate each calendar quarter to an Earn-
ings Participation Account in the Savings Associa-
tion Insurance Fund the investment income earned
by the Savings Association Insurance Fund on such
Supplemental Reserves in the preceding calendar

quarter;

“(ID distribute such Earnings Participation Ac-
count at the conclusion of each calendar year to
Savi Association Insurance Fund members; and

wav) distribute such Supplemental Reserves to
Savings Association Insurance Fund members if
and to the extent the Corporation determines that
such pupplemental Reserves are not needed to
satisfy the projected Sonignated reserve ratio for
the next succeeding calendar year

“(C) ASSESSMENT RATE FOR BANK INSURANCE FUND MEM-
BERS.—The annual assessment rate for Bank Insurance
Fund members shall be—

“(i) until December 31, 1989, “2 of 1 percent;

“Gi) from January 1, 1990, through December 31,
1990, 0.12 percent;

“(iii) on and after January 1, 1991, 0.15 percent;

“(iv) on January 1 of a calendar om in which the
reserve ratio of the Bank Insurance d is expected to
be less than the designated reserve ratio by determina-
tion of the Board of Di rs, such rate determined by
the Board of Directors to be appropriate to restore the
reserve ratio to the designated reserve ratio within a
reasonable period of time, after taking into consider-
ation the expected operating expenses, case resolution
expenditures, and investment income of the Bank
Insurance Fund, and the impact on insured bank earn-
ings and capitalization, except that—

“(I) from the date of the enactment of the Finan-
cial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforce-
ment Act of 1989 until the earlier of January 1,
1995, or January 1 of the calendar year in which
the Bank Insurance Fund reserve ratio is expected
to first attain the designated reserve ratio, the rate
shall be as specified in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

this subparagraph so long as the Bank Insurance
Fund reserve ratio is increasing on a calendar year

basis;

“(II the rate shall not exceed 0.325 percent; and

“(IID the increase in the rate in any 1 year shall
not exceed 0.075 percent; and

“(y) sufficient to ensure that for each member in each
ear the assessment shall not be less than $1,000.
) ASSESSMENT RATE FOR SAVINGS ASSOCIATION INSUR-

ANCE FUND MEMBERS.—The annual assessment rate for Sav-
ings Association Insurance Fund members shall be—

“(i) until December 31, 1990, 0.208 percent;

“(ii) from January 1, 1991, through December 31,

1993, 0.23 percent;
“(iii) from January 1, 1994, through December 31,
1997, 0.18 percent;

“Ciy) on and after January 1, 1998, 0.15 percent;

“(v) on January 1 of a calendar year in which the

reserve ratio of the Savings Association Insurance
Fund is expected to be less than the ope aga
ratio by determination of the Board of , such
rate determined by the Board of Directors to be appro-
priate to restore the reserve ratio to the designated
reserve ratio oe a — period of time, —
taking into consideration the ex expenses an
income of the Savings psc at sa, acme Fund, and
the effect on insured savings association earnings and
capitalization, except that—

“(I) from the date of the enactment of the Finan-
cial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforce-
ment Act of 1989 through December 31, 1994, the
rate oats as specified in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii)

“1D the rate shall not exceed 0.325 percent; and

“(IID the increase in the rate in any one year
shall not exceed 0.075 percent; and

“(vi) sufficient to ensure that for each member in each

year the assessment shall not be less than $1,000.

“(E) FINANCING CORPORATION AND FUNDING CORPORATION
ASSESSMENTS.— Notwithstanding any other provision of this
paragraph, amounts assessed by the Financing Corporation
and the Funding Corporation under sections 21 and 21B,
respectively, of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act against
Savings Association Insurance Fund members, shall be sub-
—— from the amounts authorized to be assessed by the

ration under this paragraph.

DS SPECIAL RULE TO ALLOW CONTINUING ASSESSMENTS BY
THE FINANCING CORPORATION AND THE FUNDING CORPORA-
TION DURING PREMIUM YEAR ADJUSTMENTS.—In order to
ensure that the Financing Corporation and the Resolution
Funding Corporation obtain sufficient funds for interest
payments on obligations of such corporations, the Corpora-
tion, in coordination with the Financing Corporation and
the Secretary of the Treasury, may prescribe such
regulations as may be necessary to allow the Financing
Corporation and the Resolution Funding Corporation to
impose assessments against Savings Association Insurance

103 STAT. 209
103 STAT. 210

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

Fund members pursuant to sections 21 and 21B, respec-
tively, of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act during the

riod required to change such members’ premium year

m the 1-year period applicable under section 404(b) of the
National Housing Act (as in effect before the date of the
enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989) to a calendar year basis.

(2) ASSESSMENT PROCEDURES.—

“(A) SEMIANNUAL ASSESSMENTS.—Except as provided in
subsection (cX2)—

“(i) the semiannual assessment due from any Bank Insur-
ance Fund member for any semiannual period shall be
equal to the product of—

“(1 % the annual assessment rate applicable to such
Bank Insurance Fund member; and

“(II) such Bank Insurance Fund member’s average
assessment base for the immediately preceding semi-
annual period; and

“(ii) the semiannual assessment due from any Savings
Association Insurance Fund member for any semiannual
period shall be equal to the product of—

“(TD ¥% the annual assessment rate applicable to such
Savings Association Insurance Fund member; and

“(ID such Savings Association Insurance Fund mem-
ber’s average assessment base for the immediately
preceding semiannual period.

“(B) DeriniT10oN.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘semi-
annual period’ means a period beginning on January 1 of any
calendar year and ending on June 30 of the same year, or a
= beginning on July 1 of any calendar year and ending on

mber 31 of the same year.”;

(5) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:

“(d) ASSESSMENT CREDITS.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—

“(A) By September 30 of each calendar year, the Corpora-
tion shall prescribe and publish the aggregate amount to be
credited to insured depository institutions in the succeeding
calendar year.

“(B) Each insured depository institution shall be notified
by the Corporation of the percentage by which the assess-
ment rate should be reduced in computing its net premium.

“(C) Any outstanding obligations owed to the Corporation
by an individual insured depository institution shall be
deducted from any assessment credit to be credited to such
depository institution.

“(2) ASSESSMENT CREDIT FOR INSURED BANKS.—

“(A) CREDIT BARRED.—The Board of Directors shall not
prescribe an assessment credit to Bank Insurance Fund
members if the Board of Directors determines that the
Bank Insurance Fund reserve ratio is expected to be equal
to or less than the designated reserve ratio in the comin
year after taking into consideration such Fund’s expected
expenses and income.

‘(B) CrepiT AUTHORIZED.—If the Board of Directors deter-
mines, after taking into consideration the Bank Insurance
Fund’s expected operating expenses, case resolution
expenditures, investment income, and assessment income,
“é

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

that the Bank Insurance Fund reserve ratio is expected to
exceed the designated reserve ratio in the succeeding year

the Board of Directors shall prescribe an assessment credit
to Bank Insurance Fund members in such succeeding cal
endar year ear equal to the lesser of—

‘@) the amount necessary to reduce the Bank Insur-
ance Fund reserve ratio to the designated reserve ratio;
or

“(ii) 100 percent of the net assessment income to be
received from Bank Insurance Fund members in such

year.
ASSESSMENT CREDIT FOR INSURED SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—
“(A) yond BARRED.—The Board of Directors shall not
rescribe an assessment credit to Savings Association
ce Fund members if the Board of Directors deter-
mines that the Savings Association Insurance Fund reserve
ratio is expected to be equal to or less than the designated
reserve ratio in the co year after taking into consider-
ation such Fund’s e and income.
“(B) Crepit AUTHORIZED.—If the Board of Directors deter-
mines, after taking into consideration the Savings Associa-

tion Insurance Fund’s e expenses and income, that
the Savings Association urance Fund reserve ratio is
expected to exceed the ted reserve ratio in the

succeeding year, the Board of Directors shall prescribe an
assessment credit to Savings Association Insurance Fund
ae in such succeeding calendar year equal to the
esser of —
“(i) the amount necessary to reduce the Savings
Association Insurance Fund reserve ratio to the des-
ated reserve ratio; or
“(ii) 100 percent of the net assessment income to be
received from Savings Association Insurance Fund
members in such succeeding year

“(4) NET ASSESSMENT INCOME DEFINED. agit purposes of this

ion—
“(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘net assessment income’
means—

“(i) with respect to the Bank Insurance Fund, the
Bank Insurance Fund net assessment income (as de-
fined in subparagraph (B)); and

“Gi) with oy to the Savings Association Insur-
ance Fund, the Savings Association Insurance Fund net
assessment income (as defined in subparagraph (C)).

“(B) BANK INSURANCE FUND NET ASSESSMENT INCOME.—
“(i) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘Bank Insurance Fund
net assessment i income’ means—
the total assessments which become due

d the calendar year with respect to members
pp such Fund, minus

“() the sum of the amount of the operating
costs and expenses described in clause (ii) and the
amount by which the Bank Insurance Fund's
insurance costs described in clause (iii) exceed its
investment income for the calendar year.

“(ii) OPERATING COST AND EXPENSES.—For the pur-
poses of this subparagraph, the operating costs and

103 STAT. 211
103 STAT. 212

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

expenses to be deducted from assessments include the
operating costs and expenses of—

“OD the Corporation for the calendar year di-

we attributable to the Bank Insurance Fund;

ancaD the Bank Insurance Fund.
“(iii) INSURANCE costs.—For Aa ae of this
sub ph, the insurance costs inclu

“(D additions to the Bank Insurance Fund's re-
serve to provide for insurance losses during the
Spence ff rag excluding any adjustments to such

h result in a reduction of such reserve;
oat

“(II) the insurance losses sustained in such cal-
endar year.
“(C) SAVINGS ASSOCIATION INSURANCE FUND NET ASSESS-
MENT INCOME.—
“() IN GENERAL.—The term ‘Savings Association
Insurance Fund net assessment income’ means—

“(l) the total assessments which become due
me pie J the calendar year with respect to members

such Fund, minus
“(I) the sum of the amount of the operating
costs and expenses described in clause (ii) and the
amount by which the Savings Association Insur-
ance Fund’s insurance costs described in clause (iii)
— its investment income for the calendar

«i s ccanarnce COST AND EXPENSES.—For purposes of
this subparagraph, the operating costs and expenses to
be deducted from assessments include the operating
costs and expenses of—

“(T) the Corporation for the calendar year di-
rectly attributable to the Savings Association
Insurance Fund; and

“(II) the Savings Association Insurance Fund.

“(iii) INSURANCE Costs.—For the purposes of this
subpa aph, the insurance costs include—

ii} additions to the Savings Association Insur-
ance Fund’s reserve to provide for insurance losses
during the calendar year, excluding any adjust-
ments to such reserve which result in a reduction
of such reserve; and

“(II) the insurance losses sustained in such cal-
endar year.

“(5) INVESTMENT INCOME DEFINED.—For purposes of this
subsection, the term ‘investment income’ means—

“(A) for the Bank Insurance Fund, interest, dividends,
and net market gains earned on investments of the Bank
Insurance Fund; and

“(B) for the Savings Association Insurance Fund, interest,
dividends, and net market gains earned on investments of
the Savings Association Insurance Fund.”

(6) in paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8) of subsection (b), sd
striking out “bank”, “bank’s” , and “banks” each place suc
term appears (except where “foreign” precedes any of such
terms) and inserting in lieu thereof “depository institution”,
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 213

eetltnny institution’s”, and “depository institutions’, respec-
tively;

(7) in subsections (c), (e), (f, (g), and (i), by striking out “bank”
each place such term appears and inserting in lieu thereof
ys * syst institution”;

(8) in subsection (jX1), by striking out the last sentence;

(9) in subsection (jX2KA)—

a striking out “failure” and inserting in lieu thereof
“ efa t”’;

(B) by striking out “bank” each place such term appears
and inserting in lieu thereof “depository institution”;

(10) in subsection (jX2XD), by inserting “unless such agency
determines that an emergency exists,” after “shall,”;

sy (A) b sikie ont r’ he end of sub h (D)

y striking out “or” at the en ) p ;

(B) by striking out the period at the end of subparagraph
(E) and inserting in lieu thereof “; or”; and

- by es at the end thereof the following new
su ph:

“(F) the appropriate Federal banking agency determines
that the proposed transaction would result in an adverse
effect on the Bank Insurance Fund or the Savings Associa-
tion Insurance Fund.”;

(12) by amending subsection (jX17) to read as follows:
“(17) Exceptions.—This subsection shall not apply with re-
spect to a transaction which is sag ee to—

“(A) section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956;

“(B) section 18(c) of this Act; or

“(C) section 10 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act.”;

(13) by — at the end of subsection (j) the following new

ph:

“(18) APPLICABILITY OF CHANGE IN CONTROL PROVISIONS TO
OTHER INSTITUTIONS.—For purposes of this subsection, the term
—— bom institution oe ; P

= any depository institution holding company; an

“(B) any other company which controls an insured deposi-
tory institution and is not a depository institution holding
repeger & ;

(14) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsec-
tion:

“(l) DESIGNATION OF FUND MEMBERSHIP FOR NEWLY INSURED
Deposirory INsTrTruTIONS; DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sec-
tion:

“(1) BANK INSURANCE FUND.—Any institution which—
“(A) becomes an insured depository institution; and
“(B) does not become a Savings Association Insurance
Fund member pursuant to ph (2), ‘
shall be a Bank Insurance Fund member.
“(2) SAVINGS ASSOCIATION INSURANCE FUND.—Any savings
association, other than any Federal savings bank chartered
ursuant to section 5(o) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act, which
mes an insured depository institution shall be a Savings
Association Insurance Fund member.
“(3) TRANSITION PROVISION.—
“(A) BANK INSURANCE FUND.—Any ep ge institution
the deposits of which were insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation on the day before the date of the
103 STAT. 214

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989, includin
“(i any Federal savings bank chained pursuant to
section 5(0) of the Home ers’ Loan Act; and
“(ii) any cooperative bank,
shall be a Bank Insurance Fund member as of such date of
enactment.

“(B) SAVINGS ASSOCIATION INSURANCE FUND.—Any sa
association which is an insured depository institution i
operation of section 4(aX2) shall be a Savings Association
Insurance Fund member as of the date of the enactment of
the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforce-
ment Act of 1989.

(4) BANK INSURANCE FUND MEMBER.—The term ‘Bank Insur-
ance Fund member’ means any depository institution the de-
posits of which are insured by the Bank Insurance Fund.

“(5) SAVINGS ASSOCIATION INSURANCE FUND MEMBER.—The
term ‘Savings Association Insurance Fund member’ means any
aang institution the deposits of which are insured by the

tion Insurance Fund.

meri BANK INSURANCE FUND RESERVE RATIO.—The term ‘Bank
Insurance fund reserve ratio’ means the ratio of the net worth
of the Bank Insurance Fund to the value of the te
estimated insured deposits held in all Bank Insurance Fund
members.

“(7) SAVINGS ASSOCIATION INSURANCE FUND RESERVE RATIO.—
The term ‘Savings Association Insurance Fund reserve ratio’
means the ratio of the value of the net worth of the Savings
Association Insurance Fund to the value of the aggregate esti-
mated insured deposits held in all Savings Association Insur-
ance Fund members.”

(15) by adding after ‘the subsection added by paragraph (14) of
this section the following new subsections:

“(m) SECONDARY RESERVE AGatnst PreMIuMs.—

“(1) OFFSETS IN CALENDAR YEARS BEGINNING BEFORE 1993.—
Subject to the maximum amount limitation contained in para-
graph (2) and notwithstanding any other provision of law, any
insured savings association may offset such association’s pro
rata share of the statutorily prescribed amount against any
premium assessed against such association under subsection (b)
of this section for any calendar year before 1993.

i. ANNUAL MAXIMUM AMOUNT LIMITATION.—The amount of

y offset allowed for any savings association under paragraph
(1) ‘hoe any calendar year before 1993 shall not exceed
an amount which is pout to 20 percent of such association’s pro
rata share of the statutorily prescribed amount (as computed for
such calendar year).

“(3) OFFSETS IN CALENDAR YEARS BEGINNING AFTER 1992.—
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a savings associa-
tion may offset such association’s pro rata share of the statu-
torily prescribed amount against any premium assessed against
such association monet subsection (b) for any calendar year
beginning after 199

(4) dada —No right, err or interest of any in-
sured depository institution in or with respect to its pro rata
share of the secondary reserve shall be assignable or transfer-
able whether by operation of law or otherwise, except to the
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 215

extent that the Corporation may provide for transfer of such pro
rata share in cases of merger or consolidation, transfer of bulk
assets or assumption of liabilities, and similar transactions, as
defined by the Corporation for purposes of this paragraph.

“(5) PRO RATA DISTRIBUTION ON TERMINATION OF INSURED
sTATUS.—If—

“(A) the status of any savings association as an insured
depository institution is terminated pursuant to any provi-
sion of section 8 or the insurance of accounts of any savings
association institution is otherwise terminated;

“(B) a receiver or other legal custodian is appointed for
the purpose of liquidation or winding up the affairs of any
savings association; or

“(C) the rag agen makes a determination that for the
purposes of this subsection any savings association has
otherwise gone into liquidation,

the Corporation shall pay in cash to such institution its pro rata
share of the secondary reserve, in accordance with such terms
and conditions as the Corporation may prescribe, or, at the
option of the Corporation, the Corporation may apply the whole
or any part of the amount which would otherwise be paid in
cash toward the payment of any indebtedness or obligation,
whether matured or not, of such institution to the Corporation,
existing or arising before such payment in cash. Such payment
or such application need not be made to the extent that the
provisions of the exception in paragraph (4) are applicable.

“(6) STATUTORILY PRESCRIBED AMOUNT DEFINED.—For purposes
of this subsection, the term ‘statutorily prescribed amount’
means, with respect to any calendar year which ends after the
date of the enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989—

“(A) $823,705,000, minus

“(B) the sum of—

“(i) the aggregate amount of offsets made before such
date of enactment by all insured institutions under
section 404(eX2) of the National Housing Act (as in
effect before such date of enactment); and

“(ii) the aggregate amount of offsets made by all
savings associations under this subsection before the
beginning of such calendar year.

“(7) SAVINGS ASSOCIATION’S PRO RATA AMOUNT.—For purposes
of this subsection, any savings association’s pro rata share of the
statutorily prescribed amount is the percentage which is equal
to such association’s share of the secon reserve as deter-
mined under section 404(e) of the National Housing Act on the
day before the date on which Federal Savings and Loan Insur-
ance Corporation ceased to recognize the secondary reserve (as
such Act was in effect on the day before such date).

“(8) YEAR OF ENACTMENT RULE.—With res to the calendar
a in which the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and

orcement Act of 1989 is enacted, the Corporation shall make
such adjustments as may be necessary—

“(A) in the computation of the statutorily prescribed
amount which shall be applicable for the remainder of such
calendar year after tating into account the aggregate
amount of offsets by all insured institutions under section
404(e\(2) of the National Housing Act (as in effect before the
103 STAT. 216 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

date of the enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989) after the beginning
of ig calendar year and before such date of enactment;
an
“(B) in the computation of the maximum amount of any
savings association’s offset for such calendar year under
paragraph (1) after taking into account—
“(j) the amount of any offset by such savings associa-
tion under section 404(eX2) of the National Housing Act
(as in effect before such date of enactment) after the
beginning of such calendar year and before such date of
enactment; and
“(ii) the change of such association’s premium year
from the l-year period applicable under section 404(b)
of the National Housing Act (as in effect before such
date of enactment) to a calendar year basis.

“(n) COLLECTIONS ON BEHALF OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF
TuriFt SUPERVISION.—When requested by the Director of the Office
of Thrift Supervision, the Corporation shall collect on behalf of the
Director assessments on savings associations levied by the Director
under section 9 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act. The Corporation
shall be reimbursed for its actual costs for the collection of such
assessments. Any such assessments by the Director shall be in
addition to any amounts assessed by the Corporation, the Financing
Corporation, and the Resolution Funding Corporation.”’.

SEC. 209. CORPORATE POWERS OF THE FDIC .

oe 9 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1819) is
amended—

(1) by striking out “bank” and “banks” each place such terms
appear (except in the last sentence of the paragraph designated
the “Fourth’ ) and inserting in lieu thereof “depository institu-
tion” and “depository institutions”, respectively; and

(2) by striking out “Upon the date” and inserting the follow-

ing:
“(a) In GENERAL.— Upon the date”;

(3) by amending the paragraph designated the “Fourth” to
read as follows:

“Fourth. To sue and be sued, and corns and defend, in any
court of law or equity, State or Federal.”

(4) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:

“(b) AGENCY AUTHORITY.—

“(1) Srarus.—The Corporation, in any capacity, shall be an
agency of the United States for purposes of section 1345 of title
28, United States Code, without regard to whether the Corpora-
tion commenced the action.

“(2) FEDERAL COURT JURISDICTION.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph
(D), all suits of a civil nature at common law or in equity to
which the Corporation, in any capacity, is a party shall be
deemed to arise under the laws of the United States.

“(B) RemMovaL.—Except as provided in subparagraph (D),
the Corporation may, without bond or security, remove any
action, suit, or proceeding from a State court to the appro-
priate United States district court.
PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 217

“(C) APPEAL OF REMAND.—The Corporation may appeal
any order of remand entered by any United States district

court.

“(D) State acTions.—Except as provided in subparagraph
(E), any action—

‘@) to which the Gupecatoe, in the Corporation’s
capacity as receiver of a State insured depository
institution by the exclusive appointment by State
authorities, is a party other than as a plaintiff;

“(ii) which involves only the preclosing rights against
the State insured depository institution, or obligations
owing posdbe nua creditors, or stockholders by the
State ins depository institution; and

“(iii) in which only the interpretation of the law of
such State is n .

re not be deemed to arise under the laws of the United
tates.

“(E) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Sub aph (D) shall not
be construed as limiting the right of the Corporation to
invoke the jurisdiction of any United States district court in
any action described in such subparagraph if the institution
of which the Corporation has been appointed receiver could
have invoked the jurisdiction of such court.

“(3) SERVICE OF PROCESS.—The Board of Directors shall des-
ignate agents upon whom service of process may be made in any
State, territory, or jurisdiction in which any insured depository
institution is located.

“(4) Bonps OR FEES.—The Corporation shall not be required to
post any bond to pursue any ap and shall not be subject to
payments of any filing fees in United States district courts or
courts of appeal.”’.

SEC. 210. ADMINISTRATION OF CORPORATION.

(a) EXAMINATION AuTHORITY.—Section 10(b) of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1820(b)) is amended to read as follows:
“(b) EXAMINATIONS.—

“(1) APPOINTMENT OF EXAMINERS AND CLAIMS AGENTS.—The
Board of Directors shall appoint examiners and claim agents.

“(2) REGULAR EXAMINATIONS.—Any examiner inted
under paragraph (1) shall have power, on behalf of the Corpora-
tion, to examine—

“(A) any insured State nonmember bank (except a Dis-
trict bank) or insured State branch of any foreign bank;
“(B) any savings association, State nonmember bank, or
State branch of a foreign bank, or other depository institu-
tion which files an application with the Corporation to
become an insured depository institution; and
“(C) any insured depository institution in default,
whenever the Board of Directors determines an examination of
any such depository institution is necessary.

(3) SPECIAL EXAMINATION OF ANY INSURED DEPOSITORY
INSTITUTION.—In addition to the examinations authorized under
paragraph (2), any examiner atpotnied under paragraph (1)
shall have power, on behalf of Corporation, to make any
special examination of any insured depository institution when-
ever the Board of Directors determines a special examination of
103 STAT. 218 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

any such depository institution is necessary to determine the
condition of such depository institution for insurance purposes.
“(4) EXAMINATION OF AFFILIATES.—
(A) se a ea making any eaatynaiion under
or (3), any examiner appointed under para-
graph oD shall have power, on behalf Of the Corporation, to
make such examinations of the affairs of any affiliate of
any insured depository institution as may be necessary to
disclose fully—
“(i) the relationship between such insured depository
institution and any such affiliate; and
“(ii) the effect of such relationship on the insured
depository institution.
“(B) COMMITMENT BY FOREIGN BANKS TO ALLOW EXAMINA-
TIONS OF AFFILIATES.—No branch or depository institution
subsidiary of a foreign bank may become an insured deposi-
tory institution unless such foreign bank submits a written
binding commitment to the Board of Directors to permit
any examination of any affiliate of such branch or deposi-
tory institution subsidiary pursuant to subparagraph (A) to
the extent determined by the Board of Directors to be
necessary to carry out the purposes of this Act.
“(5) PowER AND DUTY OF EXAMINERS.—Each examiner ap-
pointed under paragraph (1) shall—
“(A) have power to make a thorough examination of an
insured og) hme institution or affilia te under paragrap
(2), (3), or (4); and

Reports. “(B) shall make a full and detailed report of condition of
any insured depository institution or iate examined to
the Corporation.

“(6) PowWER OF CLAIM AGENTS.—Each claim agent appointed
under paragraph (1) shall have power to investigate and exam-
ine all claims for insured deposits.”’.

(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—

(1) Section 10(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
U.S.C. 1820(c)) is amended by striking out “, State nonmember
banks or other institutions” and inserting in lieu thereof “and
any State nonmember bank, savings association, or other
institution”.

(2) Section 10 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1820) is amended by striking out subsection (d).

SEC. 211. INSURANCE FUNDS.

Section 1l(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
TOT ie okies h (1) and he foll

(1) by striking out paragrap and inserting the following:

‘“(1) The Corporation shall insure the deposits of all insured

depository institutions as provided in this Act. The maximum

amount of the insured deposit of any depositor shall be $100,000.”;

@ in paragraph (KB), by striking out “time and savings”;

an

(3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:

“(4) GENERAL PROVISION RELATING TO FUNDS.—The Bank
Insurance Fund established under paragraph (5) and the Sav-
ings Association Insurance Fund established under paragraph
(6) shall each be—

“(A) maintained and administered by the Corporation;
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 219

“(B) maintained separately and not commingled; and

‘(C) used by the Corporation to carry out its insurance
purposes in the manner provided in this subsection.

“(5) BANK INSURANCE FUND.—

“(A) EsTaBLISHMENT.—There is established a fund to be
known as the Bank Insurance Fund.

“(B) TRANSFER TO FUND.—On the date of the enactment of
the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforce-
ment Act of 1989, the Permanent Insurance Fund shall be
dissolved and all assets and liabilities of the Permanent
ci Fund shall be transferred to the Bank Insurance

nd.

“(C) Uses.—The Bank Insurance Fund shall be available
to the ool mga for use with respect to Bank Insurance
Fund members.

“(D) Deposrrs.—All amounts assessed against Bank Insur-
ance Fund members by the Corporation shall be deposited
into the Bank Insurance Fund.

(6) SAVINGS ASSOCIATION INSURANCE FUND.—

“(A) EsTABLISHMENT.—There is established a fund to be
known as the Savings Association Insurance Fund.

“(B) Usss.—The Savings Association Insurance Fund
shall be available to the Corporation for use with respect to
Savings Association Insurance Fund members.

“(C) Deposirs.—All amounts assessed against Savings
Association Insurance Fund members which are not re-
quired for the Financing Corporation, the Resolution Fund-
ing Corporation, or the FSLIC Resolution Fund shall be
deposited in the Savings Association Insurance Fund.

‘(D) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE
EXPENSES.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The FSLIC Resolution Fund shall
deposit in the Savings Association Insurance Fund such
aneante es rod Corporation “agen ~ needed

uring the period beginning on the date of the enact-
ment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989 and ending on September
30, 1991, to pay the administrative and supervisory
expenses of such Fund.

‘(ii) Priorrry.—The Savings Association Insurance
Fund shall have priority over other obligations of the
FSLIC Resolution Fund with respect to such amounts.

“(E) TREASURY PAYMENTS TO FUND.—To provide sufficient
funding for the Savings Association Insurance Fund to
carry out the purposes of this Act, the Secretary of the

shall pay to such Fund, for each of the fiscal years
1992 thro 1999, the amount, if any, by which
$2,000,000,000 exceeds the amount deposited in such Fund
(during such fiscal year) pursuant to subparagraph (C).

“(F) TREASURY PAYMENTS TO MAINTAIN NET WORTH OF
FUND.—The Secre of the Treas shall pay to the
Savi Association Insurance Fund, for each fiscal year
descri in the following table, any additional amount
which may be necessary, as determined by the Corporation
and the Secretary of the Treasury to ensure that such Fund
has the minimum net worth referred to in such table
throughout each such fiscal year:
103 STAT. 220

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

The amount of

“For the fiscal year minimum net worth
beginning Oc rl of: (in billions):
1991 0.0
1992 1.0
|) | SA 2.1
1994 3.2
1995 4.3
1996 5.4
1997 6.5
TEIIE,  .. onopececonesenprocnseraronacnsconepepeppansnancorsuonseneenesenqmensprensessppeens 1.6
1999 8.8

“(G) EXCEPTION TO SUBPARAGRAPHS (E) AND (F).—Not-
withstanding subparagraphs (E) and (F), no payment may
be made pursuant to such subparagraphs after the Savings
Association Insurance Fund achieves a reserve ratio of 1.25
percent.

“(H) DISCRETIONARY RTC PAYMENTS.—If amounts available
to the pavings Association Insurance Fund for purposes
other than the payment of administrative expenses are
mig ge tag the Sone rar fgg ee: Fund to
carry out the purposes of t ct, the Corporation may
request the Resolution Trust Corporation to provide, and
the Oversight Board of the Rischutton Trust Corporation (in
the discretion of the Oversight Board) may pay, such
amount as may be needed for such purposes.

“(I) BORROWING AUTHORITY.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation may borrow from
the Federal home loan banks, with the concurrence of
the Federal Housing Finance Board, such funds as the
Corporation considers necessary for the use of the Sav-

ings Association Insurance Fund.

ii) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—Any loan from any
Federal home loan bank under lanes (i) to the Savings
Association Insurance Fund shall—

“(I) bear a rate of interest of not less than such
bank’s current marginal cost of funds, taking into
account the maturities involved;

“(ID be pocomueey = in, as determined by the
Federal H ouking tans

“(III) be liability of such Fund; and

“(IV) be subject to the limitations of section 15(c).

“(J) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There are au-
thorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, such sums as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions of this paragraph, except that—

“(i) the annual amount a Sone 000.00 under subpara-
graph (F) shall not exceed $2,000,000,000 in either fiscal
year 1991 or fiscal year 1992; ‘and

“Gi) the cumulative amount a pete under

sub ph (F) for fiscal years 1 through 1999
shall Was exceed $16,000,000, 000.

(7) PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO MAINTENANCE OF ACCOUNTS.—

“(A) CoRPORATION’S AUTHORITY.—Any provision of this
Act forbidding the commingling of the Bank Insurance
Fund with the Savings Association Insurance Fund, or

requiring the separate maintenance of the Bank Insurance
Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund, is not
intended—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 221

“(i) to limit or impair the authority of the Corpora-
tion to use the same facilities and resources in the
course of conducting supervisory, atory,
conservatorship, receivership, or liquidation functions
with respect to banks and savings associations, or to
integrate such functions; or

“Gi) to limit or impair the Corporation’s power to
combine assets or liabilities belonging to banks and
oe ogee in ga ae or a ager
or manage purposes, or or impair the
Corporation’s power to dispose of such assets or liabil-
ities on an aggregate basis.

“(B) ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS.—

“Gj) ACCOUNTING FOR USE OF FACILITIES AND RE-
souRCES.—The Corporation shall keep a full and com-
plete accounting of all costs and expenses associated
ouch of any fuseiiee merits ie teleereqrech (Ait?
course ction i in p i
and shall allocate, in the manner provided in subpara-
= (C), any such costs and expenses incurred by the

rporation—

“(I) with respect to Bank Insurance Fund mem-
a fl ager tc ogy Page

“(I) with respect to Savings Association Insur-
ance Fund members to the Savings Association
Insurance Fund.

“(ii) ACCOUNTING FOR HOLDING AND MANAGING ASSETS
AND LIABILITIES.—The pea? choo shall keep a full and
od Gite thee halle canteghegled ofan eapet or Liabil

wi olding management of any asset or liabil-
ity specified in subparagraph (A\ii).

“(iii) ACCOUNTING FOR DISPOSITION OF ASSETS AND
LIABILITIES.—The Corporation shall keep a full and
complete accounting of all expenses and receipts
associated with the disposition of any asset or
liability specified in subparagraph (A\ii).

“(iv) ALLOCATION OF COST, EXPENSES AND RECEIPTS.—
The Corporation shall allocate any cost, expense, and
receipt in clause (ii) or clause (iii) which is
associated with any asset or liability belonging to—

“(D) any Insurance Fund member to the

“(DD any Savi Association Insurance Fund

— to the Savings Association Insurance

“(C) ALLOCATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—Any

rsonnel, administrative, or other overhead expense of the
Gorsintelion shall be allocated—

“(i) fully to the Bank Insurance Fund, if the expense
was incurred directly as a result of the Corporation’s
responsibilities solely with respect to Bank ce
Fund members;

“(ii) fully to the Savings Association Insurance Fund,
if the expense was incurred directly as a result of the
Corporation’s responsibilities solely with respect to
Savings Association Insurance Fund members;
103 STAT. 222

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“Gii) between the Bank Insurance Fund and the
Savings Association Insurance Fund, in amounts
reflecting the relative degree to which the expense was
incurred as a result of the activities of Bank Insurance
desing and Savings Association Insurance Fund mem-

rs; or

“(iv) between the Bank Insurance Fund and the Sav-
ings Association Insurance Fund, in amounts reflecting
the relative total assets as of the end of the preceding
calendar year of Bank Insurance Fund members and
Savings Association Insurance Fund members, to the
extent beat thet the Board of Directors is unable to make a
determination under clause (i), (ii), or (iii).”’.

SEC. 212. CONSERVATORSHIP AND RECEIVERSHIP POWERS OF THE
CORPORATION.

(a) Basic AuTHoritiEs.—Section 11 of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821) is amended by striking out subsections (c)
through (j) and inserting the following new subsections:

“(c) APPOINTMENT OF CORPORATION AS CONSERVATOR OR

EIVER.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
Federal law, the law of any State, or the constitution of any
State, the Corporation may accept appointment and act as
conservator or receiver for any insured depository institution
apn appointment in the manner provided in paragraph (2) or

“(2) FEDERAL DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS.—

“(A) APPOINTMENT. —

“(ij) CoNSERVATOR.—The Corporation may, at the
discretion of the supervisory authority, be appointed
conservator of any insured "Federal depository institu-
tion or District bank and the Corporation may accept
such appointment.

“(ii) RECEIVER.—The Corporation shall be appointed
receiver, and shall accept such appointment, whenever
a receiver is appointed for the purpose of liquidation or
winding up the affairs of an insured Federal depository
institution or District bank by the appropriate Federal
banking agency, notwithstanding any other provision
of Federal law (other than section 21A of the Federal
Home Loan Bank Act) or the code of law for the
District of Columbia.

“(B) ADDITIONAL POWERS.—In addition to and not in dero-
gation of the powers conferred and the duties imposed by
this section on the Corporation as conservator or receiver,
the Corporation, to the extent not inconsistent with such
powers and duties, shall have any other power conferred on
or ras duty (which is related to the exercise of such power)

on a conservator or receiver for any Federal
depository institution under any other provision of law.

‘(C) CorPORATION NOT SUBJECT TO ANY OTHER AGENCY.—
When acting as conservator or receiver pursuant to an
appointment described in subparagraph (A), the Corpora-
tion shall not be subject to the direction or supervision of
any other agency or department of the United States or any
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 223

State in the exercise of the Corporation’s rights, powers,
and privileges.

“(D) DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION IN CONSERVATORSHIP SUB-
JECT TO BANKING AGENCY SUPERVISION.—Notwithstanding
sub ph (C), any Federal depository institution for
which the Corporation has been appointed conservator
shall remain subject to the supervision of the appropriate
Federal banking agency.

“(3) INSURED STATE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS—

“(A) APPOINTMENT BY APPROPRIATE STATE SUPERVISOR.—
Whenever the authority having supervision of any insured
State depository institution (other than a District deposi-
tory institution) appoints a conservator or receiver for such
institution and tenders appointment to the Corporation, the
Corporation may accept such appointment.

“(B) ADDITIONAL POWERS.—In addition to the powers con-
ferred and the duties related to the exercise of such powers
imposed by State law on any conservator or receiver ap-
pointed under the law of such State for an insured State
depository institution, the Corporation, as conservator or
receiver pursuant to an appointment described in subpara-
graph (A), shall have the powers conferred and the duties
imposed by this section on the Corporation as conservator
or receiver.

“(C) CORPORATION NOT SUBJECT TO ANY OTHER AGENCY.—
When acting as conservator or receiver t gees to an
appointment described in subparagraph (A), the Corpora-
tion shall not be subject to the direction or supervision of
any other agency or department of the United States or any
State in the exercise of its rights, powers, and privileges.

“(D) DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION IN CONSERVATORSHIP SUB-
JECT TO BANKING AGENCY SUPERVISION.—Notwithstanding
sub h (C), any insured State depository institution
for which the Corporation has been appointed conservator
shall remain subject to the supervision of the appropriate
State bank or savings association supervisor.

“(4) APPOINTMENT OF CORPORATION BY THE CORPORATION.—
Except as otherwise provided in section 21A of the Federal
Home Loan Bank Act and notwithstanding any other provision
of Federal law, the law of any State, or the constitution of any
State, the Corporation may — itself as sole conservator or
receiver of any insured State depository institution if—

“(A) the Corporation determines—

“(i) that—

“(I) a conservator, receiver, or other legal custo-
dian has been appointed for such institution;

“(ID such institution has been subject to the
appointment of any such conservator, receiver, or
oe i : for a period of at least 15 consecutive

; an

‘(IID 1 or more of the depositors in such institu-
tion is unable to withdraw any amount of any
insured deposit; or

“(ii) that such institution has been closed by or under
the laws of any State; and

“(B) the Corporation determines that 1 or more of the
grounds specified in paragraph (5)—
103 STAT. 224

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(i) existed with respect to such institution at the
time—
“() the conservator, receiver, or other legal
custodian was appointed; or
“(ID such institution was closed; or
“(i) exist at any time—
“(I) during the appointment of the conservator,
receiver, or other legal custodian; or
“(II) while such institution is closed.

“(5) GROUNDS FOR PARAGRAPH (4) APPOINTMENT.—The
grounds referred to in paragraph (4B) for the appointment of
the Corporation as conservator or receiver for any insured State
depository institution are as follows:

“(A) Insolvency in that the assets of the institution are
less than the institution’s obligations to its creditors and
others, including members of the institution.

“(B) Substantial dissipation of assets or earnings due to—

“(i) any violation of any law or regulation; or
“(ii) any unsafe or unsound practice.

““C) An unsafe or unsound condition to transact business,
including substantially insufficient capital or otherwise.

“(D) Any willful violation of a cease-and-desist order
which has Secor final.

“(E) Any concealment of books, papers, records, or assets
of the institution or any refusal to submit books, papers,
records, or affairs of the institution for inspection to any
examiner or to any lawful agent of the appropriate Federal
banking agency or State bank or savings association super-

visor.

“(F) The likelihood that the institution will not be able to
meet the demands of its depositors or pay its obligations in
the normal course of business.

“(G) The incurrence or likely incurrence of losses by the
institution that will ge all or substantially all of its
capital with no reasonable prospect for the replenishment
of the capital of the institution without Federal assistance.

“(H) Any violation of any law or regulation, or an unsafe
or unsound practice or condition which is likely to cause
insolvency or substantial dissipation of assets or earnings,
or is likely to weaken the condition of the institution or
otherwise seriously prejudice the interests of its depositors.

“(6) APPOINTMENT BY DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF THRIFT
SUPERVISION.—

“(A) ConsERVATOR.—The Corporation or the Resolution
Trust Corporation may, at the discretion of the Director of
the Office of Thrift Supervision, be appointed conservator
and the Corporation may accept any such appointment.

“(B) Recetver.—Whenever the Director of the Office of
Thrift Supervision appoints a receiver under the provisions
of section 5(dX2XC) of the Home Owner’s Loan Act for the
pu of liquidation or winding up any savings associa-
tion’s affairs—

“(i) during the 3-year period beginning on the date of
the enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, the Resolution
Trust Corporation shall be appointed; and
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 108 STAT. 225

“(ii) after the end of the 3-year period referred to in
clause (i), the Corporation shall be appointed.

“(7) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—If the Corporation appoints itself as
conservator or receiver under y= (4), the insured State
depository institution may, within 30 days thereafter, bring an
action in the United States district court for the judicial district
in which the home office of such institution is located, or in the
United States District Court for the District of Columbia, for an
order requiring the Corporation to remove itself as such con-
servator or receiver, and the court shall, upon the merits,
dismiss such action or direct the Corporation to remove itself as
such conservator or receiver.

“(8) REPLACEMENT OF CONSERVATOR OF STATE DEPOSITORY
INSTITUTION.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any insured State
depository institution for which the Corporation appointed
itself as conservator pursuant to paragraph (4), the Cor-
poration may, without any requirement of notice, hearing,
or other action, replace itself as conservator with itself as
receiver of such institution.

“(B) REPLACEMENT TREATED AS REMOVAL OF INCUMBENT.—
The replacement of a conservator with a receiver under
subparagraph (A) shall be treated as the removal of the
Corporation as conservator.

“(C) RIGHT OF REVIEW OF ORIGINAL APPOINTMENT NOT
AFFECTED.—The replacement of a conservator with a re-
ceiver under subparagraph (A) shall not affect any right of
the insured State depository institution to obtain review,
pursuant to paragraph (7), of the original appointment of
the conservator.

“(9) ADDITIONAL POWERS.—In any case in which the Corpora-
tion is appointed conservator or receiver pursuant to paragraph
(4) or (6)—

“(A) the provisions of this section shall be applicable to
the Corporation, as conservator or receiver of any insured
State depository institution in the same manner and to the
same extent as if such institution were a Federal depository
institution for which the Corporation had been appointed
conservator or receiver; and

“(B) the Corporation as receiver of any insured State
depository institution may—

a liquidate such institution in an orderly manner;
an
“(@ji) make such other disposition of any matter
concerning such institution as the Corporation deter-
mines is in the best interests of the institution, the
depositors of such institution, and the Corporation.
“(d) Powers AND Duties OF CORPORATION AS CONSERVATOR OR

“(1) RULEMAKING AUTHORITY OF CORPORATION.—The Corpo-
ration may prescribe such regulations as the Corporation
determines to be appropriate regarding the conduct of
conservatorships or receiverships.

“(2) GENERAL POWERS.—

“(A) SUCCESSOR TO INSTITUTION.—The Corporation shall,
rin igs tard or receiver, and by operation of law, succeed
103 STAT. 226

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

““i) all rights, titles, powers, and privileges of the
insured depository institution, and of any stockholder,
member, accountholder, depositor, officer, or director of
such institution with respect to the institution and the
assets of the institution; and

“(ii) title to the books, records, and assets of an
previous conservator or other legal custodian of suc
institution.

“(B) OPERATE THE INSTITUTION.—The Corporation may, as
conservator or receiver—

“(i) take over the assets of and operate the insured
soa institution with all the powers of the mem-
bers or shareholders, the directors, and the officers of
the institution and conduct all business of the institu-
tion;

“(ii) collect all obligations and money due the
institution;

“(iii) perform all functions of the institution in the
name of the institution which is consistent with the
appointment as conservator or receiver; and

‘(iv) preserve and conserve the assets and property of
such institution.

“(C) FUNCTIONS OF INSTITUTION'S OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, AND
SHAREHOLDERS.—The Corporation may, by regulation or
order, provide for the exercise of an nction by any
member or stockholder, director, or officer of any insured
depository institution for which the Corporation has been
appointed conservator or receiver.

‘(D) Powers AS CONSERVATOR.—The Corporation may, as
conservator, take such action as may

“(j) necessary to put the insured depository institu-
tion in a sound and solvent condition; and

“Gi) appropriate to carry on the business of the
institution and preserve and conserve the assets and

P ty wad of the institution.

“(E) ADDITIONAL POWERS AS RECEIVER.—The Corporation
may, as receiver, place the insured depository institution in
liquidation and proceed to realize upon the assets of the
institution, having due regard to the conditions of credit in
the locality.

“(F) ORGANIZATION OF NEW INSTITUTIONS.—The Corpora-
tion may, as receiver—

“(i) with respect to savings associations and by ap-
plication to the Director of the Office of Thrift Super-
vision, organize a new Federal savings association to
take over such assets or such liabilities as the Corpora-
tion may determine to be appropriate; and

“(ii) with respect to any insured bank, organize a new
national bank under su ion (m) or a bridge bank
under subsection (n).

“(G) MERGER; TRANSFER OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation may, as conserva-
tor or receiver—

“(I) merge the insured depository institution
with another insured depository institution; or

“(II) subject to clause (ii), transfer any asset or
liability of the institution in default (including
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 227

assets and liabilities associated with any trust busi-
ness) without any approval, assignment, or consent
with respect to such transfer.

“(ii) APPROVAL BY APPROPRIATE FEDERAL BANKING
AGENCY.—No transfer described in clause (iXII) may be
made to another depository institution (other than a
new bank or a bri bank established pursuant to
subsection (m) or (n)) without the faye of the appro-

riate Federal banking agency for such institution.

“(H) PAYMENT OF VALID OBLIGATIONS.—The Corporation,
as conservator or receiver, shall pay all valid obligations of
the insured depository institution in accordance with the
prescriptions and limitations of this Act.

“(Dl INCIDENTAL POWERS.—The Corporation may, as con-
servator or receiver—

“(i) exercise all powers and authorities specifically
granted to conservators or receivers, respectively,
under oe and such ginseng covers as shall be
n carry out such powers; an

“(ii) take any action authorized by this Act,

which the Corporation determines is in the best interests of
the depository institution, its depositors, or the Corporation.
“(3) AUTHORITY OF RECEIVER TO DETERMINE CLAIMS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation may, as receiver,
determine claims in accordance with the requirements of
7 areca and regulations prescribed under paragraph

“(B) Notice REQUIREMENTS.—The receiver, in any case
involving the liquidation or winding up of the affairs of a
closed depository institution, shall—

“(i) promptly publish a notice to the depository
institution’s creditors to present their claims, together
with proof, to the receiver by a date specified in the
notice which shall be not less than 90 days after the
publication of such notice; and

“(ii) republish such notice approximately 1 month
= 2 a respectively, after the publication under
clause (i).

“(C) MAILING REQUIRED.—The receiver shall mail a notice
similar to the notice published under pss, ys (BXi) at
the time of such publication to any tor shown on the
institution’s books—

“(i) at the creditor’s last address appearing in such
books; or

“(ii) upon discovery of the name and address of a
claimant not angen’ on the institution’s books
bow 30 days the discovery of such name and

“(4) RULEMAKING AUTHORITY RELATING TO DETERMINATION OF
cLAIMs.—The Corporation may prescribe regulations regarding
the allowance or disallowance of claims by the receiver and
providi for administrative determination of claims and
review of such determination.

“(5) PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINATION OF CLAIMS.—

(A) DETERMINATION PERIOD.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Before the end of the 180-day
period beginning on the date any claim against a
103 STAT. 228

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

depository institution is filed with the Corporation as
receiver, the Corporation shall determine whether to
allow or disallow the claim and shall notify the claim-
ant of any determination with respect to such claim.

“(ii) EXTENSION OF TIME.—The period described in
clause (i) ma y be extended by a written agreement
between the claimant and the Corporation.

“(iii) MAILING OF NOTICE SUFFICIENT.—The require-
ments of clause (i) shall be deemed to be satisfied if the
notice of any determination with respect to any claim
is mailed to the last address of the claimant which
appears—

“(I) on the depository institution’s books;

“(ID in the claim filed by the claimant; or

“(III) in documents submitted in proof of the
claim.

“(iv) CONTENTS OF NOTICE OF QJSALLOWANCE.—If any
claim filed under clause (i) is disallowed, the notice to
the claimant shall contain—

“(I a statement of each reason for the disallow-
ance; and

“(ID the procedures available for obtaining
agency review of the determination to disallow the
claim or judicial determination of the claim.

“(B) ALLOWANCE OF PROVEN CLAIMS.—The receiver shall
allow any claim received on or before the date specified in
the notice published under paragraph (3XB\Xi) by the re-
ceiver from any claimant which is proved to the satisfaction
of the receiver.

“(C) DISALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS FILED AFTER END OF FILING
PERIOD.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in clause (ii),
claims filed after the date specified in the notice pub-
lished under paragraph (3XB\i) shall be disallowed and
such disallowance shall be final.

“(ii) CERTAIN EXCEPTIONS.—Clause (i) shall not apply
with respect to any claim filed by any claimant after
the date specified in the notice published under para-
graph (3B Xi) and such claim may be considered by the
receiver if—

“(I) the claimant did not receive notice of the
appointment of the receiver in time to file such
claim before such date; and

“(II) such claim is filed in time to permit pay-
ment of such claim.

“(D) AUTHORITY TO DISALLOW CLAIMS.—The receiver may
disallow any portion of any claim by a creditor or claim of
security, preference, or priority which is not proved to the
satisfaction of the receiver.

“(E) No JUDICIAL REVIEW OF DETERMINATION PURSUANT TO
SUBPARAGRAPH (D).—No court may review the ped ar s
poorly eters pursuant to subparagraph (D) to disallow a
claim.

“(F) LEGAL EFFECT OF FILING.—

“(i) STATUTE OF LIMITATION TOLLED.—For purposes of
any applicable statute of limitations, the filing of a
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 229

claim with the receiver shall constitute a commence-
ment of an action.

“(ii) No PREJUDICE TO OTHER ACTIONS.—Subject to
paragraph (12), the filing of a claim with the receiver
shall not prejudice an we right of the claimant to con-
tinue any action which was filed before the appoint-
ment of the receiver.

“(6) PROVISION FOR AGENCY REVIEW OR JUDICIAL DETERMINA-
TION OF CLAIMS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Before the end of the 60-day period

on the earlier of—

“(i) the end of the period described in paragraph
(5(AXi) with respect to any claim against a depository
institution for which the Corporation is receiver; or

“(ii) the date of any notice of disallowance of such
claim pursuant to paragraph (5)(A)(i),

the claimant may request rative review of the
claim in accordance with subparagraph (A) or (B) of para-
graph (7) or file suit on such claim (or continue an action
commenced before the appointment of the receiver) in the
district or territorial court of the United States for the
district within which the depository institution’s principal
lace of business is located or the United States District
urt for the District of Columbia (and such court shall
have j iction to hear such claim).

“(B) SraTuTe OF LimITaTiIoNs.—If any claimant fails to—

“(i) request administrative review of any claim in
— with subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph

or

“Gi) file suit on such claim (or continue an action
commenced before the appointment of the receiver),

before the end of the 60-day period described in subpara-
= (A), the claim shall be deemed to be disallowed (other
portion of such claim which was allowed by the
cect Ha of the end of such period, such disallowance
shall be final, and the claimant shall have no further rights
or remedies with respect to such claim.
“(7) REVIEW OF CLAIMS.—

“(A) ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.—If any claimant requests
review under this subparagraph in lieu of filing or continu-
ing ate — under paragraph (6) and the Corporation
—- request, the Corporation shall consider the

pring pees insert for a hearing on the record. The

final determination of the Corporation with respect to such
claim shall be subject to judicial review under chapter 7 of
yd 5, United States Code.

“(B) OTHER REVIEW PROCEDURES.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation shall also estab-
lish such alternative ute resolution processes as
may be appropriate for the resolution of claims filed

er paragraph (5 “sag
“(ii) Crrreria.—In establishing alternative dispute
resolution — the Corporation shall strive for
procedures which are expeditious, fair, independent,
and low cost.
“(Gii) VOLUNTARY BINDING OR NONBINDING PROCE-
pURES.—The Corporation may establish both binding
103 STAT. 230

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

and nonbinding processes, which may be conducted by
any government or private party, but all parties,
includi the claimant and the Corporation, must
to the use of the process in a particular case.

“(iv) CONSIDERATION OF INCENTIVES.—The Corpo-
ration shall seek to develop incentives for claimants to
participate in the alternative dispute resolution

process.
“(8) EXPEDITED DETERMINATION OF CLAIMS.—

“(A) ESTABLISHMENT REQUIRED.—The Corporation shall
establish a procedure for expedited relief outside of the
routine claims process established under paragraph (5) for
claimants who—

“(i) allege the existence of legally valid and enforce-
able or perfected security interests in assets of any
depository institution for which the Corporation has
been appointed receiver; and

“(ii) allege that irreparable injury will occur if the
routine claims procedure is followed.

“(B) DETERMINATION PERIOD.—Before the end of the 90-
day period beginning on the date any claim is filed in
accordance with the procedures established pursuant to
subparagraph (A), the Corporation shall—

“(i) determine—

“(I) whether to allow or disallow such claim; or

“(II) whether such claim should be determined
pursuant to the procedures established pursuant to
paragraph (5); and

“(ii) notify the claimant of the determination, and if
the claim is disallowed, a statement of each reason for
the disallowance and the procedure for obtaining
agency review or judicial determination.

“(C) PERIOD FOR FILING OR RENEWING suItT.—Any claimant
who files a request for expedited relief shall be permitted to
file a suit, or to continue a suit filed before the appointment
of the receiver, seeking a determination of the claimant’s
age with respect to such security interest after the ear-

er of—

“(i) the end of the 90-day period beginning on the
date of the filing of a request for expedited relief; or

“(ii) the date the Corporation denies the claim.

“(D) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—If an action described in
ae (C) is not filed, or the motion to renew a
previously filed suit is not made, before the end of the 30-
day period beginning on the date on which such action or
motion may be filed in accordance with subparagraph (B),
the claim be deemed to be disallowed as of the end of
such iod (other than any portion of such claim which
was allowed by the receiver), such disallowance shall be
final, and the claimant shall have no further rights or
remedies with respect to such claim.

“(E) LEGAL EFFECT OF FILING.—

“(i) STATUTE OF LIMITATION TOLLED.—For purposes of
any applicable statute of limitations, the filing of a
claim with the receiver shall constitute a commence-
ment of an action.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 108 STAT. 231

“Gii) NO PREJUDICE TO OTHER ACTIONS.—Subject to
paragraph (12), the filing of a claim with the receiver
shall not prejudice — right of the claimant to con-
tinue any action which was filed before the appoint-
ment of the receiver.

“(9) AGREEMENT AS BASIS OF CLAIM.—

“(A) ReQuiREMENTS.—Except as provided in subpara-
graph (B), any agreement which does not meet the require-
ments set forth in section 13(e) shall not form the basis of,
or substantially comprise, a claim against the receiver or
the Corporation.

“(B) EXCEPTION TO CONTEMPORANEOUS EXECUTION
REQUIREMENT.— Notwithstanding section 13(e)(2), any ngrer
ment relating to an extension of credit between a eral
home loan bank or Federal Reserve bank and any insured
depository institution which was executed before the exten-
sion of credit by such bank to such institution shall be
treated as having been executed contemporaneously with
such extension of credit for purposes of subparagraph (A).

(10) PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The receiver may, in the receiver’s
discretion and to the extent funds are available, pay credi-
tor claims which are allowed by the receiver, approved by
the Corporation pursuant to a final determination pursuant
to paragraph (7) or (8), or determined by the final judgment
of any court of competent jurisdiction in such manner and
amounts as are authorized under this Act.

“(B) PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS ON CLAIMS.—The receiver
may, in the receiver’s sole discretion, pay dividends on
proved claims at any time, and no liability shall attach to
the Corporation (in such Corporation’s corporate copay
or as receiver), by reason of any such a for failure
to pay dividends to a claimant whose claim is not proved at
the time of any such payment.

“(11) DisrRIBUTION OF ASSETS.—

“(A) SUBROGATED CLAIMS; CLAIMS OF UNINSURED DEPOSI-
TORS AND OTHER CREDITORS.—The receiver shall—

“(i) retain for the account of the Corporation such
portion of the amounts realized from any liquidation as
the Corporation may be entitled to receive in connec-
= with the subrogation of the claims of depositors;
an

“(ii) pay to depositors and other creditors the net
amounts available for distribution to them.

“(B) DistRIBUTION TO SHAREHOLDERS OF AMOUNTS REMAIN-
ING AFTER PAYMENT OF ALL OTHER CLAIMS AND EXPENSES.—
In any case in which funds remain after all depositors,
creditors, other claimants, and administrative expenses are
paid, the receiver shall distribute such funds to the deposi-
tory institution’s shareholders or members together with
the accounting report required under paragraph (14XC).

“(12) SUSPENSION OF LEGAL ACTIONS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—After the appointment of a conserva-
tor or receiver for an insured depository institution, the
conservator or receiver may request a stay for a period not
to exceed—

“(i) 45 days, in the case of any conservator; and
103 STAT. 232

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(ii) 90 days, in the case of any receiver,
in any judicial action or proceeding to which such institu-
tion is or becomes a party.

‘“(B) GRANT OF STAY BY ALL COURTS REQUIRED.—Upon
receipt of a request by any conservator or receiver pursuant
to subparagraph (A) for a stay of any judicial action or

ieeeica in any court with jurisdiction of such action or
uinesding: the court shall grant such stay as to all parties.

«(f3) ADDITIONAL RIGHTS AND DUTIES.—

“(A) PRIOR FINAL ADJUDICATION.—The re pomee shall
abide by any final unappealable judgment of any court of
competent jurisdiction which was rendered before the
appointment of the Corporation as conservator or receiver.
‘(B) RiGcHTS AND REMEDIES OF CONSERVATOR OR RE-
CEIvER.—In the event of any appealable Judgment, the Cor-
poration as conservator or receiver
_ “G) have all the rights and remedies available to the
depository institution (before the appointment
2 such conservator or receiver) and the Corporation in
its corporate capacity, including removal to Federal
court and all appellate rights; an
“(ii) not be required to post any bond in order to
gray such remedies.
‘“(C) No ATTACHMENT OR EXECUTION.—No attachment or
execution may issue by any court upon assets in the posses-
sion of the receiver.

“(D) LIMITATION ON JUDICIAL REVIEW.—Except as other-
wise provided in this subsection, no court have juris-
diction over—

“(i) any claim or action for pa Lee farses from, or any
action seeking a determination of rights with respect
to, the assets of any depository institution for which the
Corporation has n appointed receiver, including
assets which the Corporation may acquire from itself as
such receiver; or

“(i) any claim relating to any act or omission of such
institution or the Corporation as receiver.

*(14) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS FOR ACTIONS BROUGHT BY CON-
SERVATOR OR RECEIVER.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any provision of any
contract, the applicable statute of limitations with regard to
any action brought by the Corporation as conservator or
receiver

“(i) in the case of any contract claim, the et of—
“(I the 6-year period beginning on the
claim accrues; or
“(II) the period applicable under State law; and
“(ii) in the case of any tort claim, the longer of—
“([) the 3-year period beginning on the date the
claim accrues; or
“(ID the period applicable under State law.

“(B) DETERMINATION OF THE DATE ON WHICH A CLAIM
ACCRUES.—For purposes of subparagraph (A), the date on
which the statute of limitation ins to run on any claim
described in such subparagraph shall be the later of—

“(i) the date of the appointment of the Corporation as
conservator or receiver; or
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 233

“(ii) the date on which the cause of action accrues.
“(15) ACCOUNTING AND RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation as conservator or
receiver shall, consistent with the accounting and reporting
practices and ass re established by the Corporation,
maintain a full accounting of each conservatorship and
receivership or other disposition of institutions in default.

“(B) ANNUAL ACCOUNTING OR REPORT.—With respect to
each conservatorship or receivership to which the Corpora-
tion was appointed, the Corporation shall make an annual
accounting or report, as yap tenes available to the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, the Comptroller General of the
United States, and the authority which appointed the
Corporation as conservator or receiver.

“(C) AVAILABILITY OF REPORTS.—Any report prepared
pursuant to subparagraph (B) shall be made available by
the Corporation upon request to any shareholder of the
depository institution for which the Corporation was ap-
sg conservator or receiver or any other member of the
public.

“(D) RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENT.—After the end of the
6-year period beginning on the date the Corporation is
appointed as receiver of an insured depository institution,
the Corporation may destroy any records of such institution
which the Corporation, in the Corporation’s discretion,
determines to be unnecessary unless directed not to do so by
a court of competent jurisdiction or governmental agency,
or prohibited by law.

“(16) CONTRACTS WITH STATE HOUSING FINANCE AUTHORITIES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation may enter into con-
tracts with any State housing finance authority for the sale
of mortgage-related assets (as such terms are defined in
section 1301 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989) of any depository institution
in default (including assets and liabilities associated with
any trust business), such contracts to be effective in accord-
ance with their terms without any further approval, assign-
ment, or consent with respect thereto.

‘(B) FACTORS TO CONSIDER.—In a the disposition
of mortgage related assets to any State housing finance
authority the Corporation shall consider—

“(i) the State housing finance authority's ability to
acquire and service current, delinquent, and defaulted
mortgage related assets;

“(ii) the State housing finance authority’s ability to
further national housing policies;

“(iii) the State housing finance authority’s sensitivity
to the im of the sale of mortgage related assets
upon the State and local communities;

“(iv) the costs to the Federal Government associated
with alternative ownership or dispositions of the mort-
gage related assets;

‘(v) the minimization of future guaranties which
may be required of the Federal Government;

“(vi) the maximization of mortgage related asset
values; and
103 STAT. 234

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(vii) the utilization of institutions currently estab-
lished in mortgage related asset market activities.
“(e) Provisions RELATING TO ConTRACTs ENTERED INTO BEFORE

APPOINTMENT OF CONSERVATOR OR RECEIVER.—

“(1) AUTHORITY TO REPUDIATE CONTRACTS.—In addition to any
other rights a conservator or receiver may have, the conservator
or receiver for any insured depository institution may disaffirm
or repudiate any contract or lease—

“(A) to which such institution is a party;

“(B) the performance of which the conservator or re-
ceiver, in the conservator’s or receiver’s discretion, deter-
mines to be burdensome; and

“(C) the disaffirmance or repudiation of which the con-
servator or receiver determines, in the conservator’s or
receiver’s discretion, will promote the orderly administra-
tion of the institution’s affairs.

“(2) TIMING OF REPUDIATION.—The conservator or receiver
appointed for any insured depository institution in accordance
with subsection (c) shall determine whether or not to exercise
the rights of repudiation under this subsection within a reason-
able period following such appointment.

“(3) CLAIMS FOR DAMAGES FOR REPUDIATION. —

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided in
subparagraph (C) and paragraphs (4), (5), and (6), the liabil-
ity of the conservator or receiver for the disaffirmance or
repudiation of any contract pursuant to paragraph (1) shall

limited to actual direct compensatory damages;
an
“(ii) determined as of—
“(T) the date of the appointment of the conserva-
tor or receiver; or
“(ID in the case of any contract or agreement
referred to in paragraph (8), the date of the
disaffirmance or repudiation of such contract or
agreement.

“(B) No LIABILITY FOR OTHER DAMAGES.—For purposes of
subparagraph (A), the term ‘actual direct compensatory

does not include—
“(i) punitive or exemp damages;
“(ii) damages for lost profits or opportunity; or
“(iii) damages for pain and suffering.

“(C) MEASURE OF DAMAGES FOR REPUDIATION OF FINANCIAL
CONTRACTS.—In the case of any qualified financial contract
or agreement to which paragraph (8) applies, compensatory

es shall be—

“(i) deemed to include normal and reasonable costs of
cover or other reasonable measures of damages utilized
in the industries for such contract and agreement

; an
“ii) paid in accordance with this subsection and
subsection (k) except as otherwise specifically provided

in this section.
“(4) LEASES UNDER WHICH THE INSTITUTION IS THE LESSEE,—
“(A) IN GENERAL.—If the conservator or receiver dis-
affirms or repudiates a lease under which the insured
depository institution was the lessee, the conservator or
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 235

receiver shall not be liable for any damages (other than
damages determined pursuant to subparagraph (B)) for the
disaffirmance or repudiation of such lease.

“(B) PAYMENTS OF RENT.—Notwithstanding subparagraph
(A), the lessor under a lease to which such subparagraph
applies shall—

“(i) be entitled to the contractual rent accruing
before the later of the date—

“(I) the notice of disaffirmance or repudiation is
mailed; or

“(ID the disaffirmance or repudiation becomes
effective,

unless the lessor is in default or breach of the terms of
the lease;
“(ii) have no claim for damages under any accelera-
tion clause or other penalty provision in the lease; and
“(iii) have a claim for any unpaid rent, subject to all
appropriate offsets and defenses, due as of the date of
the appointment which shall be paid in accordance
with this subsection and subsection (k).
“(5) LEASES UNDER WHICH THE INSTITUTION IS THE LESSOR.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If the conservator or receiver repudi-
ates an unexpired written lease of real property of the
insured depository institution under which the institution
is the lessor and the lessee is not, as of the date of such
repudiation, in default, the lessee under such lease may
either—

“(i) treat the lease as terminated by such repudi-
ation; or

“(ii) remain in possession of the leasehold interest for
the balance of the term of the lease unless the lessee
defaults under the terms of the lease after the date of
such repudiation.

“(B) PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO LESSEE REMAINING IN
POSSESSION.—If any lessee under a lease described in
subparagraph (A) remains in possession of a leasehold in-
terest pursuant to clause (ii) of such subparagraph—

‘(i) the lessee—

“() shall continue to pay the contractual rent
pursuant to the terms of the lease after the date of
the repudiation of such lease;

“(ID may offset against any rent payment which
accrues after the date of the repudiation of the
lease, any damages which accrue after such date
due to the nonperformance of any obligation of the
insured depository institution under the lease after
such date; and

ae the ponbervaine or receiver von not agar to
e lessee for any damages arising r suc te asa
result of the repudiation other than the amount of any
offset allowed under clause (iXID).
“(6) CONTRACTS FOR THE SALE OF REAL PROPERTY.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If the conservator or receiver repudi-
ates any contract (which meets the uirements of each
paragraph of section 13(e)) for the sale of real Fp dora and
the purchaser of such real property under such contract is

a
103 STAT. 236

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

in ion and is not, as of the date of such repudiation,
in default, such purchaser may either—

“(i) treat the contract as terminated by such repudi-
ation; or

“(ii) remain in possession of such real property.

“(B) PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO PURCHASER REMAINING IN
POSSESSION.—If any purchaser of real property under any
contract described in subparagraph (A) remains in poses.
sion of such property pursuant to clause (ii) of such
subparagraph—

(i) the purchaser—

“(I) shall continue to make all payments due
under the contract after the date of the repudi-
ation of the contract; and

“(II) may offset against any such payments any
damages which accrue after such date due to the
nonperformance (after such date) of any obligation
of . e depository institution under the contract;
an

“(ii) the conservator or receiver shall—

“(I) not be liable to the purchaser for any dam-
ages arising after such date as a result of the
repudiation other than the amount of any offset
allowed under clause (iXID;

“(II) deliver title to the purchaser in accordance
with the provisions of the contract; and

“(IID have no obligation under the contract other
ane the performance required under subclause

“(C) ASSIGNMENT AND SALE ALLOWED.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—No provision of this paragraph
shall be construed as limiting the right of the conserva-
tor or receiver to assign the contract described in
subparagraph (A) and sell the property subject to the
contract and the provisions of this paragraph.

“(ii) NO LIABILITY AFTER ASSIGNMENT AND SALE.—If an
assignment and sale described in clause (i) is con-
summated, the conservator or receiver shall have no
further liability under the contract described in
subparagraph (A) or with respect to the real property
which was the subject of such contract.

“(7) PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO SERVICE CONTRACTS.—

“(A) SERVICES PERFORMED BEFORE APPOINTMENT.—In the
case of any contract for services between any person and
any insured depository institution for which the Corpora-
tion has been appointed conservator or receiver, any claim
of such person for services performed before the appoint-
ment of the conservator or the receiver shall be—

““i) a claim to be paid in accordance with subsections
(d) and (i); and

“(ii) deemed to have arisen as of the date the con-
servator or receiver was appointed.

“(B) SERVICES PERFORMED AFTER APPOINTMENT AND PRIOR
TO REPUDIATION.—If, in the case of any contract for services
described in subparagraph (A), the conservator or receiver
accepts performance by the other person before the con-
servator or receiver makes any determination to exercise
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 237

the right of repudiation of such contract under this
section—

(i) the other party shall be paid under the terms of
the contract for the services performed; and

“(ii) the amount of such payment shall be treated as
an administrative expense of the conservatorship or
receivership.

“(C) ACCEPTANCE OF PERFORMANCE NO BAR TO SUBSEQUENT
REPUDIATION.—The acceptance by any conservator or re-
ceiver of services referred to in subparagraph (B) in connec-
tion with a contract described in such subparagraph shall
not affect the right of the conservator or receiver to repudi-
ate such contract under this section at any time after such

rformance.

““(8) CERTAIN QUALIFIED FINANCIAL CONTRACTS.—

“(A) RIGHTS OF PARTIES TO CONTRACTS.—Subject to para-
graph (10) of this subsection and notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act (other than subsections (dX9) and
(iX4X1) of this section and section 13(e)), any other Federal
law, or the law of any State, no person shall be stayed or
prohibited from exercising—

“(i) any right to cause the termination or liquidation
of any qualified financial contract with an insured
depository institution which arises upon the appoint-
ment of the Corporation as receiver for such institution
at ay time after such appointment;

“(ii) any right under any securi ment relat-
ing to any contract or agreement described in clause (i);

or

“(iii) any right to offset or net out any termination
value, payment amount, or other transfer obligation
arising under or in connection with 1 or more contracts
and agreements described in clause (i), including any
master agreement for such contracts or ments.

“(B) ri ead OF OTHER PROVISIONS.—Subsection
ser se shall popP in the case of any judicial action or

a ell an Bea referred to in

tascam Bre (A), or itory agent ~
which such receiver was  sepdttiaks te on
contract or agreement described in sadidcteoract AN: (Axi) with
such institution.

“(C) CERTAIN TRANSFERS NOT AVOIDABLE.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding paragraph (11),
the Corporation, whether acting as such or as conserva-
tor or receiver of an insured depository institution, may
not avoid any transfer of Raa or other property in
connection with any qualified financial contract with
an insured depository institution.

“(ii) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN TRANSFERS.—Clause (i)
‘shall not apply to any transfer of money or other
property in connection with any qualified financial
contract with an insured depository institution if the
Corporation determines that the transferee had actual
intent to hinder, delay, or defraud such institution, the
creditors of such institution, or any conservator or
receiver appointed for such institution.
103 STAT. 238 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(D) CERTAIN CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS DEFINED.—For
purposes of this subsection—

“(i) QUALIFIED FINANCIAL CONTRACT.—The term
‘qualified financial contract’ means any securities con-
tract, commodity contract, forward contract, re-
purchase agreement, swap agreement, and any similar
agreement that the Corporation determines by regula-
tion to be a qualified financial contract for purposes of
this paragraph.

“(ij) SecURITIES CONTRACT.—The term ‘securities
contract’ —

“() has the meaning given to such term in sec-
tion 741(7) of title 11, United States Code, except
that the term ‘security’ (as used in such section)
shall be deemed to include any mortgage loan, any
mortgage-related security (as defined in section
areu of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934),

interest in any mortgage loan or mort-
est: ted security; an

“(I does not include any participation in a
commercial mortgage loan unless the Corporation
determines by regulation, resolution, or order to
include any such participation within the meaning

of such term.
“(iii) CoMMODITY CONTRACT.—The term ‘commodity
contract’ has the meaning given to such term in section

761(4) of title 11, United States Code.

“(iv) FoRWARD CONTRACT.—The term ‘forward con-
tract’ has the meaning given to such term in section
101(24) of title 11, United States Code.

“(vy) REPURCHASE AGREEMENT.—The term ‘repurchase

ment’—

“(I) has the meaning given to such term in sec-
tion 101(41) of title 11, the United States Code,
except that the items (as described in such section)
which may be s ah 8 to any such agreement shall
be deemed to include mortgage-related securities
(as such term is defined in section 3(aX41) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, any mortgage
loan, and any interest in any mortgage loan; and

“(II) does not include any participation in a
commercial mortgage loan unless the Corporation
determines by regulation, resolution, or order to
include any such participation within the meaning
of such term.

“(vi) SWAP AGREEMENT.—The term ‘swap agree-
ment’—

“() means any agreement, including the terms
and conditions incorporated by reference in any
such agreement, which is a rate swap agreement,

swap, commodity swap, forward rate agree-
ment, interest rate future, interest rate option pur-
chased, forward foreign exchange agreement, rate
cap agreement, rate floor agreement, rate collar
agreement, currency swap agreement, cross-cur-
rency rate swap agreement, currency future, or
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 239

currency option purchased or any other similar
agreement, and

“(I) includes any combination of such agree-
ments and any option to enter into any such agree-
ment.

“(vii) bccpaat tig OF MASTER pon argh AS 1 SWAP
AGREEMENT.—Any master agreement for any agree-
ments described in clause (viXI) together with all
supplements to such master agreement shall be treated
as 1 swap agreement.

“(viii) SFER.—The term ‘transfer’ has the mean-
ing given to such term in section 101(50) of title 11,
United States Code.

“(E) CERTAIN PROTECTIONS IN EVENT OF APPOINTMENT OF
CONSERVATOR.—Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Act (other than h (12) of this subsection, subsec-
tions (dX9) and aw of this section, and section 13(e) of
this Act), any other Federal law, or the law of any State, no
person shall be stayed or prohibited from exercising—

“(ij) any right such person has to cause the termi-
nation, liquidation, or acceleration of any qualified
financial contract with a depository institution in a
conservatorship based upon a default under such finan-
cial contract which is enforceable under applicable
ee ae at - :

“(ii) any right under any security arrangement relat-
ing to such qualified financial contracts; or

‘(iii) any right to offset or net out any termination

values, payment amounts, or other er obligations
arising under or in connection with such qualified
financial contracts.

“(9) TRANSFER OF QUALIFIED FINANCIAL CONTRACTS.—In
making any transfer of assets or liabilities of a depository
institution in default which includes any qualified financial
contract, the conservator or receiver for such depository institu-
tion shall either—

“(A) transfer to 1 depository institution (other than a Claims.
depository institution in default)—
“(i) all qualified financial contracts between—
Re any person or any affiliate of such person;

an
“(ID the depository institution in default;

“(ii) all claims of such person or any affiliate of such
person against such depository institution under any
such contract (other than any claim which, under the
terms of any such contract, is subordinated to the
claims of general unsecured creditors of such institu-

tion);

“Gii) all claims of such crepe & institution against
such person or any affiliate of such person under any
such contract; and

“(iv) all property securing any claim described in
clause (ii) or (iii) under any such contract; or

“(B) transfer none of the financial contracts, claims, or
Eropety referred to in subparagraph (A) (with respect to
such person and any affiliate of such person).

“(10) NOTIFICATION OF TRANSFER.—
103 STAT. 240

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If—

“(i) the conservator or receiver for an insured deposi-
tory institution in default makes any transfer of the
assets and liabilities of such institution; and

“(ii) the transfer includes any qualified financial con-
tract,

the conservator or receiver shall use such conservator’s or
receiver's best efforts to notify any person who is a party to
any such contract of such transfer by 12:00, noon (local
time) on the business day following such transfer.

“(B) BUSINESS DAY DEFINED.—For purposes of this para-
graph, the term ‘business day’ means any day other than
any Saturday, Sunday, or any day on which either the New
York Stock Exchange or the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York is closed.

“(11) CERTAIN SECURITY INTERESTS NOT AVOIDABLE.—No provi-
sion of this subsection shall be construed as permitting the
avoidance of any legally enforceable or perfected security in-
terest in any of the assets of any depository institution except
where such an interest is taken in contemplation of the institu-
tion’s insolvency or with the intent to hinder, delay, or defraud
the institution or the creditors of such institution.

“(12) AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE CONTRACTS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The conservator or receiver may en-
force any contract, other than a director’s or officer’s liabil-
ity insurance contract or a depository institution bond,
entered into by the depository institution notwithstanding

y provision of the contract providing for termination,
default, acceleration, or exercise of rights upon, or solely by
reason of, insolvency or the appointment of a conservator or
receiver.

“(B) CERTAIN RIGHTS NOT AFFECTED.—No provision of this
paragraph may be construed as impairing or affecting any
right of the conservator or receiver to enforce or recover
under a directors or officers liability insurance contract or
depository institution bond under other applicable law.

“(13) EXCEPTION FOR FEDERAL RESERVE AND FEDERAL HOME
LOAN BANKS.—No provision of this subsection shall apply with
respect to—

“(A) any extension of credit from any Federal home loan
bank or Federal Reserve bank to any insured depository
institution; or

“(B) any security interest in the assets of the institution
securing any such extension of credit.

“(f) PAYMENT OF INSURED Deposits.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—In case of the liquidation of, or other
closing or winding up of the affairs of, any insured depository
institution, ade by the of the insured deposits in such institution
eel be m the Corporation as soon as possible, subject to

ped apron of subsection (g), either by cash or by making

able to each depositor a transferred deposit in a new
ineuied paca A institution in the same community or in
another insured depository institution in an amount equal to
the insured deposit of such depositor, except that—
“(A) all payments e pursuant to this section on ac-
count of a closed Bank Insurance Fund member shall be
made only from the Bank Insurance Fund, and
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 241

“(B) all payments made pursuant to this section on ac-
count of a closed Savi Association Insurance Fund
member shall be made only from the Savings Association
Insurance Fund.

“(2) Proor or cLarms.—The Corporation, in its discretion, may
require proof of claims to be filed and may approve or reject
such claims for insured deposits.

“(3) RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES.—

“(A) RESOLUTIONS IN ACCORDANCE TO CORPORATION REGU- Claims.
LATIONS.—In the case of any disputed claim relating to any
insured deposit or any determination of insurance coverage
with respect to any deposit, the Corporation may resolve
such disputed claim in accordance with regulations pre-
scribed by the Corporation establishing procedures for
resolving such claims.

“(B) ADJUDICATION OF CLAIms.—If the Corporation has not
prescribed regulations establishing procedures for repolving
disputed claims, the Corporation may require the fina
determination of a court of competent jurisdiction before

peying any such claim.

“(4) REVIEW OF CORPORATION’S DETERMINATION.—Final deter- Courts, U.S.
mination made by the Corporation shall be reviewable in
accordance with chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code, by the
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia or
the court of appeals for the Federal judicial circuit where the
ang place of business of the depository institution is
ocated.

“(5) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—Any request for review of a
final determination by the Corporation shall be filed with the
appropriate circuit court of sppenle not later than 60 days after
such determination is ordered.

“(g) SUBROGATION OF CORPORATION.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
Federal law, the law of any State, or the constitution of any
State, the Corporation, upon the payment to any depositor as
provided in su ion (f) in connection with any insured deposi-
tory institution or insured branch described in such subsection
or the assumption of any deposit in such institution or branch
by another insured depository institution pursuant to this sec-
tion or section 13, shall be subrogated to all rights of the
depositor against such institution or branch to the extent of
such payment or assumption.

“(2) DivIDENDS ON SUBROGATED AMOUNTS.—The subrogation of Claims.
the Corporation under arene (1) with respect to any insured
depository institution shall include the right on the part of the
Corporation to receive the same dividends from the proceeds of
the assets of such institution and recoveries on account of
stockholders’ liability as would have been payable to the deposi-
tor on a claim for the insured deposit, but such depositor shall
retain such claim for any uninsured or unassumed portion of
the deposit.

“(3) WAIVER OF CERTAIN CLAIMS.—With respect to any bank
which closes after May 25, 1938, the Corporation shall waive, in
favor only of any person against whom stockholders’ individual
liability may be asserted, any claim on account of such liability
in excess of the liability, if any, to the bank or its creditors, for
the amount unpaid upon such stock in such bank; but any such
103 STAT. 242 PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989

waiver shall be effected in such manner and on such terms and
conditions as will not increase recoveries or dividends on ac-
count of claims to which the Corporation is not subrogated.

“(4) APPLICABILITY OF STATE LAW.—If the Corporation is ap-
pointed pursuant to subsection (cX8), or determines not to
invoke the authority conferred in subsection (c\(4), the rights of
depositors and other creditors of any State depository institu-
tion shall be determined in atcundatice with the applicable
provisions of State law.

“(h) ConpITIONS APPLICABLE To LIQUIDATION PROCEEDINGS.—

“(1) CONSIDERATION OF LOCAL ECONOMIC IMPACT REQUIRED.—
The Corporation shall fully consider the adverse economic
impact on local communities, including businesses and farms, of
actions to be taken by it during the inistration and liquida-
tion of loans of a depository institution in default.

(2) ACTIONS TO ALLEVIATE ADVERSE ECONOMIC IMPACT TO BE
CONSIDERED.—The actions which the Corporation shall consider
include the release of proceeds from the sale of products and
services for family living and business expenses and shortening
the undue length of the decisionmaking process for the accept-
ance of offers of settlement contingent upon third party financ-
m3) GUIDELINES REQUIRED.—The Corporation shall adopt and
publish procedures and guidelines to minimize adverse eco-
nomic effects caused by its actions on individual debtors in the
community.

(i) VALUATION OF CLAIMS IN DEFAULT.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
Federal law or the law of any State and regardless of the
method which the Corporation determines to utilize with re-
spect to an insured depository institution in default or in danger
of default, including transactions authorized under subsection
(n) and section 13(c), this subsection shall govern the rights of
the creditors (other than insured depositors) of such institution.

“(2) MAXIMUM LIABILITY.—The maximum liability of the Cor-
poration, acting as receiver or in any other capacity, to any
person having a claim inst the receiver or the insured
depository institution for which such receiver is appointed shall
equal the amount such claimant would have received if the
Corporation had liquidated the assets and liabilities of such
institution without exercising the Corporation’s authority
under subsection (n) of this section or section 13.

“(3) ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS AUTHORIZED.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation may, in its discretion
and in the interests of minimizing its losses, use its own
resources to make additional payments or credit additional
amounts to or with respect to or for the account of cant
claimant or category of claimants. The Corporation shall
not be obligated, as a result of having made any such
payment or credited any such amount to or with respect to
or for the account of any claimant or category of claimants,
to make payments to any other claimant or category or
claimants.

“(B) Source or runps.—If the depository institution in
default is a Bank Insurance Fund member, the Corporation
may only make such payments out of funds held in the
Bank Insurance Fund. If the depository institution in de-
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 243

fault is a Savings Association Insurance Fund member, the

Corporation may only make such payments out of funds
held in. the Savings Association Insurance Fund.

Pigs MANNER OF PAYMENT.—The Corporation may make

pach ly ye or credit the amounts specified in subpara-

(A) and (B) directly to the claimants or may make

ate payments or credit such amounts to an open insured

depository institution to induce such institution to accept

ility for such claims.

“(j) LimrraTION ON COURT ACTION.—Except as provided in this
section, no court may take any action, except at the request of the
Board of Directors by regulation or order, to restrain or affect the
exercise of powers or functions of the Corporation as a conservator
or a receiver.

“(k) LIABILITY OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS.—A director or officer of
an insured depository institution may be held personally liable for
monetary damages in any civil action by, on behalf of, or at the
request or direction of the Corporation, which action is prosecuted
wholly or partially for the benefit of the Corporation—

“(1) acting as conservator or receiver of such institution,
“(2) acting based upon a suit, claim, or cause of action pur-
from, assigned by, or otherwise conveyed by such re-
ceiver or conservator, or
“(3) acting based u = a suit, claim, or cause of action pur-
chased from, assign , or otherwise conveyed i in whole or in
part by an insured pba Ta institution or its affiliate in
connection with assistance provided under section 13,
for gross negligence, including any similar conduct or conduct that
ps mca: dls ter disregard of a duty of care (than gross
ce) iach intentional tortious conduct, as such terms are
d ed and detsrmibed under applicable State law. Nothing in this
paragraph shall impair or affect any right of the Corporation under
other applicable law.

“()) Damacgs.—In any proceeding related to any ae against an
insured depository institution’ s director, officer, em Boyes, agent,
attorney, accountant, appraiser, or any other party employed by or
providing services to an insured depository institution, recoverable
damages determined to result from the improvident or otherwise
improper use or investment of any insured depository institution’s
assets shall include principal losses and appropriate interest.”.

SEC. 213. NEW BANKS.

Section 11 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821) is
amended by inserting after subsection (1) (as added by section 212)
the foll new subsection:

“(m) New Banxks.—

“(1) ORGANIZATION AUTHORIZED.—As soon as possible after the
default of an insured bank, the Corporation, if it finds that it is
advisable and in the interest of the depositors of the insured
bank in default or the public shall organize a new national bank
in the same community as the bank in default to assume the
insured deposits of such bank in default and otherwise to
perform temporarily the functions hereinafter provided for.

“(2) ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION.—The articles of association and
the organization certificate of the new bank shall be executed
by representatives designated by the Corporation.
103 STAT. 244

Taxes.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(3) CapITAL stocK.—No capital stock need be paid in by the
Corporation.

“(4) EXECUTIVE OFFICER.—The new bank shall not have a
board of directors, but shall be managed by an executive officer
appointed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation who
shall be subject to its directions.

“(5) SUBJECT TO LAWS RELATING TO NATIONAL BANKS.—In all
other respects the new bank shall be organized in accordance
with the then existing provisions of law relating to the organiza-
tion of national banking associations.

“(6) NEw pEposits.—The new bank may, with the approval of
the Corporation, accept new deposits which shall be subject to
withdrawal on demand and which, except where the new bank
is the only bank in the community, shall not exceed $100,000
from any depositor.

“(7) INSURED sTATUS.—The new bank, without application to
or approval by the Corporation, shall be an insured depository
institution and shall maintain on deposit with the Federal
Reserve bank of its district reserves in the amount required by
law for member banks, but it shall not be required to subscribe
for stock of the Federal Reserve bank.

“(8) INVESTMENTS.—Funds of the new bank shall be kept on
hand in cash, invested in obligations of the United States or
obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the
United States, or deposited with the Corporation, any Federal
Reserve bank, or, to the extent of the insurance coverage on any
such deposit, an insured depository institution.

“(9) ConDUCT OF BUSINESS.—The new bank, unless otherwise
authorized by the Comptroller of the Currency, shall transact
business only as authorized by this Act and as may be incidental
to its organization.

“(10) Exempt status.—Notwithstanding any other provision
of Federal or State law, the new bank, its franchise, property,
and income shall be exempt from all taxation now or hereafter
imposed by the United States, by any territory, dependency, or
possession thereof, or by any State, county, municipality, or
local taxing authority.

“(11) TRANSFER OF DEPOsITS.—(A) Upon the organization of a
new bank, the Corporation shall promptly make available to it
an amount equal to the estimated insured deposits of such bank
in default plus the estimated amount of the expenses of operat-
ing the new bank, and shall determine as soon as possible the
amount due each depositor for the depositor’s insured deposit in
the bank in default, and the total expenses of operation of the
new bank.

“(B) Upon such determination, the amounts so estimated and
made available shall be adjusted to conform to the amounts so
determined.

“(12) EARNINGS.—Earnings of the new bank shall be paid over
or credited to the Corporation in such adjustment.

“(13) Losses.—If any new bank, during the period it continues
its status as such, sustains any losses with respect to which it is
not effectively protected except by reason of being an insured
bank, the Corporation shall furnish to it additional funds in the
amount of such losses.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 108 STAT. 245

“(14) PAYMENT OF INSURED DEPOsITs.—(A) The new bank shall
assume as transferred deposits the payment of the insured
deposits of such bank in default to each of its depositors.

‘(B) Of the amounts so made available, the Corporation shall
transfer to the new bank, in cash, such sums as may be nec-
essary to enable it to meet its expenses of operation and imme-
diate cash demands on such transferred deposits, and the
remainder of such amounts shall be subject to withdrawal by
the new bank on demand.

“(15) IssuANCE oF stock.—(A) Whenever in the judgment of
the Board of Directors it is desirable to do so, the Corporation
shall cause capital stock of the new bank to be offered for sale
on such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors shall
deem advisable in an amount sufficient, in the opinion of the
Board of Directors, to make possible the conduct of the business
of the new bank on a sound basis, but in no event less than that
required by section 5138 of the Revised Statutes for the
organization of a national bank in the place where such new
bank is located.

“(B) The stockholders of the insured bank in default shall be
given the first opportunity to purchase any shares of common
stock so offered.

“(16) ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE.—Upon proof that an adequate Securities.
amount of capital stock in the new bank has been subscribed
and paid for in cash, the Comptroller of the Currency shall
require the articles of association and the organization certifi-
cate to be amended to conform to the requirements for the
organization of a national bank, and thereafter, when the
requirements of law with respect to the organization of a na-
tional bank have been complied with, the Comptroller of the
Currency shall issue to the bank a certificate of authority to
commence business, and thereupon the bank shall cease to have
the status of a new bank, shall be m ed by directors elected
by its own shareholders, may exercise all the powers granted by
law, and shall be subject to all provisions of law relating to
national banks. Such shall thereafter be an insured na-
tional bank, without certification to or approval by the Corpora-
tion.

“(17) TRANSFER TO OTHER INSTITUTION.—If the capital stock of Securities.
the new bank is not offered for sale, or if an adequate amount of
capital for such new bank is not subscribed and paid for, the
Board of Directors may offer to transfer its business to any
insured depository institution in the same community which
will take over its assets, assume its liabilities, and pay to the
Corporation for such business such amount as the Board of
Directors may deem adequate; or the Board of Directors in its
discretion may change the location of the new bank to the office
of the Corporation or to some other place or may at any time
wind up its affairs as herein provided.

“(18) WinpING up.—Unless the capital stock of the new bank Securities.
is sold or its assets are taken over and its liabilities are assumed
by an insured ys sr eayery institution as above pak within 2
years after the date of its organization, the Corporation shall
wind up the affairs of such bank, after giving such notice, if any,
as the Comptroller of the Currency may require, and shall
certify to the Comptroller of the Currency the termination of
108 STAT. 246

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

the new bank. Thereafter the Corporation shall be liable for the
obligations of such bank and shall be the owner of its assets.

“(19) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN LAWS.—The provisions of sec-
tions 5220 and 5221 of the Revised Statutes shall not apply to a
new bank under this subsection.”’.

SEC. 214. BRIDGE BANKS.
Section 11 of the Federal eet ae Act (12 U.S.C. 1821) is

amended by inserting after su

on (m) (as added by section 213)

the following new subsection:
“(n) BripGe BANKS.—
“(1) ORGANIZATION.—

ity

“(A) Purpose.—When 1 or more insured banks are in
default, or when the Corporation anticipates that 1 or more
insured banks may become in default, the Corporation may,
in its discretion, organize, and the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency shall charter, 1 or more natio banks
with res thereto with the powers and attributes of
national king associations, subject to the provisions of
this subsection, to be referred to as bridge banks.

“(B) AuTHORITIES.—Upon the granting of a charter to a
bridge bank, the bridge bank may—

“(ij) assume such deposits of such insured bank or
banks that is or are in default or in danger of default as
the Corporation may, in its discretion, determine to be
appropriate, except that if any insured deposits of a
bank. are assumed, all ins deposits of that bank
shall be assumed by the bridge bank or another insured
depository institution;

(ii) assume such other liabilities (including liabil-
ities associated with any trust business) of such insured
bank or banks that is or are in default or in danger of
default as the Corporation may, in its discretion, deter-
mine to be appropriate;

“Gii) pure such assets (including assets associ-
ated with any trust business) of such insured bank or
banks that is or are in default or in r of default as
the Corporation may, in its discretion, determine to be
appropriate, and

(iv) perform any other temporary function which
the Corporation may, in its di tion, prescribe in
accordance with this Act.

“(C) ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION.—The articles of association
and organization certificate of a bridge bank as approved by
the Corporation shall be executed by 3 representatives
designated by the Corporation.

“(D) INTERIM pIRECTORS.—A bridge bank shall have an
interim board of directors consisting of not fewer than 5 nor
more than 10 members appointed by the perc

“(E) NATIONAL BANK.—A bridge bank 8 be organized
as a national bank.

CHARTERING.—

“(A) Conpitions.—A national bank may be chartered by
the Comptroller of the Currency as a bridge bank only if
the Board of Directors determines that—

“(j) the amount which is reasonably necessary to
operate such bridge bank will not exceed the amount
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 247

which is reasonably necessary to save the cost of liq-
uidating, including paying the insured accounts of, 1 or
more insured in default or in danger of default
with respect to which the bridge bank is chartered;

“(ji) the continued operation of such insured bank or
banks in default or in danger of default with respect to
which the bridge bank is chartered is essential to pro-
vide adequate banking services in the community
where each such bank in default or in danger of default
is located; or

“(iii) the continued operation of such insured bank or
banks in default or in r of default with respect to
which the bridge bank is chartered is in the best in-
terest of the depositors of such bank or banks in default
or in danger of default or the public.

‘“(B) INSURED NATIONAL BANK.—A bridge bank shall be an
insured bank from the time it is chartered as a national

“(C) BRIDGE BANK TREATED AS BEING IN DEFAULT FOR
CERTAIN PURPOSES.—A bridge bank shall be treated as an
insured bank in default at such times and for such purposes
as the gare om _; in its discretion, determine.

“(D) MANAGEMENT.—A bridge bank, upon the granting of
its charter, shall be under the management of a board of
directors consis of not fewer than 5 nor more than 10
members appointed by the Corporation.

“(E) ByLaws.—The board of directors of a bridge bank
shall adopt such bylaws as may be approved by the Corpora-
tion.

“(3) TRANSFER OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—

“(j) TRANSFER UPON GRANT OF CHARTER —Upon the
granting of a charter to a bridge bank pursuant to this
subsection, the Corporation, as receiver, or an sae
receiver pi with respect to any insured
default with respect to which the Seiios bank is char
tered may transfer assets and liabilities of such
bank in default to the bridge bank in accordance with

h (1).

“(ii) Peedi) St UBSEQUENT TRANSFERS.—At any time after a
charter is cevagiad to a bridge bank, the Corporation, as
receiver, or any other receiver appointed with respect
to an insured bank in default may transfer any assets
and liabilities of such insured bank in default as the
Corporation may, in its discretion, determine to be
a te in accordance with paragraph (1).

TREATMENT OF TRUST BUSINESS.—For purposes of
ede a rtebewotir the trust business, including fiduciary
a gclntenants, of any insured bank in default is in-

cluded among its assets and liabilities.

“(iv) EFFECTIVE WITHOUT APPROVAL.—The transfer of
any assets or liabilities, including those associated with
any trust business, of an insured bank in default trans-
ferred to a bridge bank shall be effective without any
further approval under Federal or State law, assign-
ment, or consent with respect thereto.
103 STAT. 248

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG., 9, 1989

“(B) INTENT OF CONGRESS REGARDING CONTINUING OPER-
ATIONS.—It is the intent of the Congress that, in order to
prevent unnecessary hardship or losses to the customers of
any insured bank in ooreiall with respect to which a bridge
bank is chartered, es are creditworthy farmers, small
businesses, and households, the Corporation should—

“(i) continue to honor commitments made by the
bank in default to creditworthy customers, and

“(ii) not interrupt or terminate adequately secured
loans which are transferred under subparagraph (A)
and are being repaid by the debtor in accordance with
the terms of the loan instrument.

“(4) PowWERS OF BRIDGE BANKS.—Each bridge bank chartered
under this subsection shall have all corporate powers of, and be
ealect to the same provisions of law as, a national bank, except
that—

“(A) the Corporation may—

“(i) remove the interim directors and directors of a
bridge bank;

“(ii) fix the compensation of members of the interim
board of directors and the board of directors and senior
management, as determined by the Corporation in its
discretion, of a bridge bank; and

“(iii) waive any requirement established under sec-
tion 5145, 5146, 5147, 5148, or 5149 of the Revised
Statutes (relating to directors of national banks) or
section 31 of the Banking Act of 1933 which would
otherwise be applicable with respect to directors of a
bridge bank by operation of paragraph (2)(B);

‘(B) the Corporation may indemnify the representatives
for purposes of paragraph (1B) and the interim directors,
directors, officers, employees, and agents of a bridge bank
on such terms as the Corporation determines to be appro-
priate;

‘(C) no requirement under section 5138 of the Revised
Statutes or any other provision of law relating to the
capital of a national bank shall apply with respect to a
bridge bank;

“(D) the Comptroller of the Currency may establish a
limitation on the extent to which any person may become
indebted to a bridge bank without regard to the amount of
the bridge bank’s capital or surplus;

“(E)(i) the board of directors of a bridge bank shall elect a
chairperson who may also serve in the position of chief
executive officer, except that such person shall not serve
either as chairperson or as chief executive officer without
the prior approval of the Corporation;

“(i) the ‘henee of directors of a bridge bank may appoint a
chief executive officer who is not also the chairperson,
except that such person shall not serve as chief executive
officer without the — approval of the Corporation;

“(F) a bridge bank shall not be required to purchase stock
of any Federal Reserve bank;

“(G) the Comptroller of the Currency shall waive any
requirement for a fidelity bond with respect to a bridge
bank at the request of the Corporation;
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 249

“(H) any judicial action to which a bridge bank becomes a
party by virtue of its acquisition of any assets or assump-
tion of any liabilities of a bank in default shall be stayed
from further proceedings for a period of up to 45 days at the
request of the bridge bank;

“(D no agreement which tends to diminish or defeat the
right, title or interest of a bge bank in any asset of an
insured bank in default acquired by it shall be valid against
the bridge bank unless such agreement—

“(i) is in writing,

“(ii) was executed by such insured bank in default
and the person or persons claiming an adverse interest
thereunder, including the obligor, contemporaneous!
with the acquisition of the asset by such insured oik
in default,

“(iii) was approved by the board of directors of such
insured bank in default or its loan committee, which
approval shall be reflected in the minutes of said board
or committee, and

“(iv) has been, continuously from the time of its
execution, an official record of such insured bank in
default;

‘(J) notwithstanding section 13(eX2), any agreement
relating to an extension of credit between a Federal home
loan bank or Federal Reserve bank and any insured deposi-
tory institution which was executed before the extension of
credit by such bank to such depository institution shall be
treated as having been executed contemporaneously with
— extension of credit for purposes of subparagraph (D;
an

“(K) except with the prior approval of the Corporation, a
bridge bank may not, in any transaction or series of trans-
actions, issue capital stock or be a party to any merger,
consolidation, disposition of assets or liabilities, sale or
exchange of capital stock, or similar transaction, or change
its charter.

“(5) CAPITAL.—

“(A) No CAPITAL REQUIRED.—The Corporation shall not be Securities.
required to—

(i) issue any capital stock on behalf of a bridge bank
chartered under this subsection; or

“(ii) purchase any capital stock of a bridge bank,
except that notwi ing any other provision of
Federal or State law, the Corporation may purchase
and retain capital stock of a bridge bank in such
amounts and on such terms as the Corporation, in its
discretion, determines to be appropriate.

“(B) OPERATING FUNDS IN LIEU OF CAPITAL.—Upon the
organization of a bridge bank, and thereafter, as the Board
of Directors may, in its discretion, determine to be nec-
essary or advisable, the Corporation may make available to
the bridge bank, upon such terms and conditions and in
such form and amounts as the Corporation may in its
discretion determine, funds for the operation of the bridge
bank in lieu of capital.

“(C) AUTHORITY TO ISSUE CAPITAL STOCK.—Whenever the
Board of Directors determines it is advisable to do so, the
103 STAT. 250 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

Corporation shall cause capital stock of a bridge bank to be
issued and offered for sale in such amounts and on such
terms and conditions as the Corporation may, in its discre-
tion, determine.

“(6) No FEDERAL STATUS.—

“(A) AGENCY staTus.—A bridge bank is not an agency,
establishment, or instrumentality of the United States.

“(B) EMPLOYEE sTATUS.—Representatives for purposes of
paragraph (1B), interim directors, directors, officers,
employees, or agents of a bridge bank are not, solely by
virtue of service in any such capacity, officers or employees
of the United States. Any employee of the Conporstion or of
any Federal instrumentality who serves at the request of
the Corporation as a representative for purposes of para-
graph (1\B), interim director, director, officer, employee, or
agent of a bridge bank shall not—

“(i) solely by virtue of service in any such capacity
lose any existing status as an officer or employee of the
United States for purposes of title 5, United States
Code, or any other provision of law, or
Wages. “(ii) receive any salary or benefits for service in any
such capacity with respect to a bridge bank in addition
to such salary or benefits as are obtained through
employment with the Corporation or such Federal
instrumentality.

(7) ASSISTANCE AUTHORIZED.—The Corporation may, in its
discretion, provide assistance under section 13(c) to facilitate
any transaction described in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of paragraph
(10A) with respect to any bridge bank in the same manner and
to the same extent as such assistance may be provided under
such section with respect to an insured bank in default, or to
facilitate a bridge bank’s acquisition of any assets or the
assumption of any liabilities of an insured k in default.

“(8) ACQUISITION.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The responsible agency shall notify
the Attorney General of any transaction involving the
merger or sale of a bridge bank requiring ag ‘ae omm under
section 18(c) and if a report on competitive factors is re-
quested within 10 days, such transaction may not be con-
summated before the 5th calendar day after the date of
approval by the responsible agency with respect thereto. If
the responsible agency has found that it must act imme-
diately to prevent the probable failure of 1 of the banks
involved, the preceding sentence does not apply and the

transaction may be consummated immediately upon ap-
proval by the agency.
Securities. “(B) By OUT-OF-STATE HOLDING COMPANY.—Any depository

institution, including an out-of-State depository institution,
or any out-of-State depository institution holding company
may acquire and retain the capital stock or assets of, or
otherwise acquire and retain a bridge bank if the bridge
bank at any time had assets aggregating $500,000,000 or
more, as determined by the Corporation on the basis of the
bridge bank’s reports of condition or on the basis of the last
available reports of condition of any insured bank in de-
fault, which institution has been acquired, or whose assets
have been acquired, by the bridge bank. The acquiring
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

entity may acquire the bridge bank only in the same
manner and to the same extent as such entity may acquire
an insured bank in default under section 13(f)\(2).

‘(9) DURATION OF BRIDGE BANK.—Subject to paragraphs (11)
and (13), the status of a bridge bank as such shall terminate at
the end of the 2-year period following the date it was granted a
charter. The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, extend
the status of the bridge bank as such for 3 additional 1-year

riods.
(10) TERMINATION OF BRIDGE BANK STATUS.—The status of
any ae bank as such shall terminate upon the earliest of—
“(A) the merger or consolidation of the bridge bank with

a depository institution that is not a bridge bank;
“By at the election of the Corporation, the sale of a
majority of the capital stock of the bridge bank to an entity
other t the Corporation and other than another bridge

bank;

“(C) the sale of 80 percent, or more, of the capital stock of
the bridge bank to an entity other than the Corporation and
other than another bridge :

“(D) at the election of the Corporation, either the assump-
tion of all or substantially all of the deposits and other
liabilities of the bridge bank by a depository institution
holding company or a depository institution that is not a
bridge bank, or the acquisition of all or substantially all of
the assets of the bri bank by a depository institution
paleing Company, a depository institution that is not a
se : or other entity as permitted under applicable

aw; an

“(E) the expiration of the period provided in paragraph
(9), or the earlier dissolution of the bridge bank as provided
in ph (12).

“(11) ErFEcT OF TERMINATION EVENTS.—

“(A) MERGER OR CONSOLIDATION.—A bridge bank that
participates in a merger or consolidation as provided in
paragraph (10 A) be for all purposes a national bank
with all the rights, powers, and privil thereof, and such
merger or consolidation shall be conducted in accordance
with, and shall have the effect provided in, the provisions of
applicable law.

‘(B) CHARTER CONVERSION.—Following the sale of a
majority of the capital stock of the bridge bank as provided
in pa ph (10XB), the Corporation may amend the char-
ter of the bridge bank to reflect the termination of the
status of the peat bank as such, whereupon the bank shall
remain a national bank, with all of the ts, powers, and
privileges thereof, subject to all laws and regulations ap-
plicable thereto.

“(C) SaLe or stock.—Following the sale of 80 percent or
more of the capital stock of a bridge bank as provided in
paragraph (10XC), the bank shall remain a national bank,
with all of the rights, powers, eee een thereof, subject
to all laws and regulations applicable thereto.

“(D) ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITIES AND SALE OF ASSETS.—
Following the assumption of all or substantially all of the
liabilities of the bridge bank, or the sale of all or substan-
tially all of the assets of the bridge bank, as provided in

103 STAT. 251
103 STAT. 252

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

paragraph (10XD), at the election of the Corporation the
bridge bank may retain its status as such for the period
provided in paragraph (8).

“(E) EFFECT ON HOLDING COMPANIES.—A depository
institution holding company acquiring a bridge bank under
section 13(f), paragraph (8B) (or any predecessor provi-
sion), or both provisions, shall not be impaired or adversely
affected by the termination of the status of a bridge bank as
a result of subparagraph (A), (B), (C), or (D) of paragraph
(10), and shall be entitled to the rights and privileges
provided in section 13(f).

“(F) AMENDMENTS TO CHARTER.—Following the con-
summation of a transaction described in subparagraph (A),
(B), (C), or (D) of paragraph (10), the charter of the resulting
institution shall be amended to reflect the termination of
bridge bank status, if appropriate.

“(12) DISSOLUTION OF BRIDGE BANK.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision
of State or Federal law, if the bridge bank’s status as such
has not previously been terminated by the occurrence of an
event specified in subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), or (D) of
paragraph (10)—

“(ij) the Board of Directors may, in its discretion,
dissolve a bridge bank in accordance with this para-
graph at any time; and

“(ii) the Board of Directors shall promptly commence
dissolution proceedings in accordance with this para-
graph upon the expiration of the 2-year period follow-
ing the date the bridge bank was chartered, or any
extension thereof, as provided in paragraph (9).

“(B) Procepures.—The Comptroller of the Currency shall
appoint the Corporation receiver for a bridge bank upon
certification by the Board of Directors to the Comptroller of
the Currency of its determination to dissolve the bridge
bank. The Corporation as such receiver shall wind up the
affairs of the bridge bank in conformity with the provisions
of law relating to the liquidation of closed national banks.
With respect to any such bridge bank, the Corporation as
such receiver shall have all the rights, powers, and privi-
leges and shall perform the duties related to the exercise of
such rights, powers, or privileges granted by law to a
receiver of any insured depository institution and notwith-
standing any other provision of law in the exercise of such
rights, powers, and privileges the Corporation shall not be
subject to the direction or supervision of any State agency
or other Federal agency.

“(13) MULTIPLE BRIDGE BANKS.—Subject to paragraph seein:
the Corporation may, in the Corporation’s discretion, organize 2
or more bridge banks under this subsection to assume any
deposits of, assume any other liabilities of, and purchase any
assets of a single bank in default.”.

SEC. 215. FSLIC RESOLUTION FUND.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Act is amended by inserting after
section 11 the following:
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 253

“SEC. 11A. FSLIC RESOLUTION FUND. 12 USC 1821a.

“(a) ESTABLISHED.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established a separate fund to be
designated as the FSLIC Resolution Fund which shall be man-
aged by the Corporation and separately maintained and not
commingled.

“(2) TRANSFER OF FSLIC ASSETS AND LIABILITIES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in section 21A of
the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, all assets and liabilities
of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation on
the day before the date of the enactment of the Financial
Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of
1989 shall be transferred to the FSLIC Resolution Fund.

“(B) ADDITIONAL CLAIMS ON ASSETS.—The FSLIC Resolu-
tion Fund shall pay to the Savings Association Insurance
Fund such amounts as are needed for administrative and
supervisory expenses from the date of enactment of the
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement
Act of 1989 through September 30, 1991.

“(3) SEPARATE HOLDING.—Assets and liabilities transferred to
the FSLIC Resolution Fund shall be the assets and liabilities of
the Fund and not of the Corporation and shall not be consoli-
dated with the assets and liabilities of the Bank Insurance
Fund, the Savings Association Insurance Fund, or the Corpora-
tion for accounting, reporting, or any other purpose.

“(b) Source or Funps.—The FSLIC Resolution Fund shall be
funded from the following sources to the extent funds are needed in
the listed priority:

“(1) Income earned on assets of the FSLIC Resolution Fund.

*(2) rp umerce dividends and payments made on claims
received by the FSLIC Resolution Fund from receiverships to
the extent such funds are not required by the Resolution Fund-
ing Corporation pursuant to section 21B of the Federal Home
Loan Bank Act or the Financing Corporation pursuant to sec-
tion 21 of such Act.

“(3) Amounts borrowed by the Financing Corporation pursu-
ant to section 21 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act.

(4) During the period beginning on the date of the enactment
of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforce-
ment Act of 1989 and ending on December 31, 1991, amounts
assessed against Savings Association Insurance Fund members
by the Corporation pursuant to section 7 which are not required
by the Financing Corporation pursuant to section 21 of the
Federal Home Loan Bank Act or by the Resolution Funding
Corporation pursuant to section 21B of the Federal Home Loan
Bank Act.

“(c) TREAsuRY BACKUP.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—If the funds described in subsections (a) and
(b) are insufficient to satisfy the liabilities of the FSLIC Resolu-
tion Fund, the Secretary of the Treasury shall pay to the Fund
such amounts as may be n , as determined by the Cor-
poration and the Secretary, for SLIC Resolution Fund pur-

“(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There are au-
thorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of the Treasury,
103 STAT. 254 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

without fiscal year limitation, such sums as may be necessary to
carry out this section.

“(d) Lecat Proceepincs.—Any judgment resulting from a
proceeding to which the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Cor-
poration was a party prior to its dissolution or which is initiated
against the Corporation with respect to the Federal Savings and
Loan Insurance Corporation or with respect to the FSLIC Resolution
Fund shall be limited to the assets of the FSLIC Resolution Fund.

“(e) TRANSFER OF Net Proceeps From SALE oF RTC Assets.—The
FSLIC Resolution Fund shall transfer to the Resolution Funding
Corporation any net proceeds from the sale of assets acquired from
the Resolution Trust Corporation upon the termination of such
aac ag erga pursuant to section 21A of the Federal Home Loan

ank Act.

“(f) DissoLUTION.—The FSLIC Resolution Fund shall be dissolved
~ satisfaction of all debts and liabilities and sale of all assets.

pon dissolution any remaining funds shall be paid into the Treas-
pt Any administrative facilities and supplies, including offices and
office supplies, shall be transferred to the Corporation.for use by and
to be held as assets of the Savings Association Insurance Fund.”’.

SEC. 216. AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 12.

— 12 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1822) is
amended—
(1) by striking out “closed bank” each place it appears and
inserting in lieu thereof “depository institution in default”;
(2) by striking out subsection (a) and inserting the following:
“(a) Bonp Nor RequireD; AGENTS; Fer.—The Corporation as re-
ceiver of an insured depository institution or branch of a foreign
bank shall not be required to furnish bond and may appoint an
agent or agents to assist it in its duties as such receiver. All fees,
compensation, and expenses of liquidation and administration shall
be fixed by the Corporation, and may be paid by it out of funds
coming into its possession as such receiver.’’; and
(3) in subsection (d)—
(A) by striking out “as a stockholder of the depository
institution in default, or of any liability of such depositor’;

and
(B) by striking out “such bank” and inserting in lieu
thereof ‘‘such depository institution”.

SEC. 217. AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 13.

Secon 13 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1823) is
amended—

(1) by striking out subsection (a).and inserting the following:

“(a) INVESTMENT OF CORPORATION'S FuNDS.—

“(1) AuTHoRITY.—Funds held in the Bank Insurance Fund,
the Savings Association Insurance Fund, or the FSLIC Resolu-
tion Fund, that are not otherwise employed shall be invested in
obligations of the United States or in obligations guaranteed as
to principal and interest has United States.

“(2) Limrration.—The Corporation shall not sell or purchase
any obligations described in paragraph (1) for its own account,
at any one time aggregating in excess of $100,000, without the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury. The Secretary may
approve a transaction or class of transactions subject to the
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 255

provisions of this paragraph under such conditions as the Sec-

retary ma determine.”;
(2) in schuaction (b)—

(A) by striking out “banking and checking” and “banking
or checking” each place such terms appear and inserting in
lieu thereof ‘‘depository’’;

(B) by striking out “bank” (except “Federal Reserve
bank”) cach place such term a appears and inserting in lieu
thereof “depository institution”;

(3) in subsection (c)—
hates ped striking out “closing” or “closed” each place such
appear and inserting in lieu thereof “default” or “in
default”:

(B) by striking out “an” before “closed insured bank”
oan place such terms appear and inserting in lieu thereof

‘© by striking out “in default insured depository institu-
tion” each place such term appears and inserting in lieu
thereof “insured depository institution in default”;

(D) in paragraph (2XA)—

(i) by striking out “such insured institution” and “an
insured depository institution” and inserting in lieu
thereof “such other insured deposito institution” and
“another insured depository institution”, a pepe 4

i by inserting “any or all of the” after “the sale o
and

(iii) by striking out “and the assumption” and insert-
CR) iy. adding ok the ond. of paragesoh GO the lowing:

y at the of paragra’ e following:

“(C) a action to which the Corporation is or becomes a
ory hi acquiring any asset or exercising any other authority
set fo in this section shall be stayed for a period of 60 days at

the er of the ere te é
(3), by striking out “section 13(f) of this
Act” an inserting in lieu thereof “subsection (f) or (k) of

mG in pore h (4)—
in parngre

(i) b iy steliing out “banking” and inserting in lieu
‘theneek “depository”; and

(ii) by inserting at the end of subparagraph (A) the
following: “In calculating the cost of assistance, the
Corporation shall include (i) the immediate and long-
term obligations of the Corporation with respect to
such assistance, including contingent liabilities, and (ii)
the Federal tax revenues foregone by the Government,
to the extent reasonably ascertainable.”; an

ot by a out paragraph (8);

© an and @ area A —e (6) and (7) as paragraphs

by inserting after  rerdervsiil (5) the follo
“(6) The a of any assets or liabilities pherncinion with any
trust business of an insured depository institution in default under
subpa ph (2A) shall be effective without any State or Federal
approval, assignment, or consent with res thereto.”; and
®) by adding at the end the following:
“(9) Payments made under this subsection shall be made—
103 STAT. 256

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(A) from the Bank Insurance Fund in the case of payments
to or on behalf of a member of such Fund; or

“(B) from the Savings Association Insurance Fund or from
funds made available by the Resolution Trust Corporation in
the case of payments to or on behalf of any Savings Association
Insurance Fund member.”;

(4) by striking out subsections (d) and (e) and inserting the
following:

“(d) SALE or AssETs TO CORPORATION. —

“(1) IN GENERAL.-Any conservator, receiver, or liquidator ap-
pointed for any insured depository institution in default, includ-
ing the Corporation acting in such capacity, shall be entitled to
offer the assets of such depository institutions for sale to the
Corporation or as security for loans from the Corporation.

“(2) Proczeps.—The proceeds of every sale or loan of assets to
the Corporation shall be utilized for the same purposes and in
the same manner as other funds realized from the liquidation of
the assets of such depository institutions.

“(3) RIGHTS AND POWERS OF CORPORATION. —

“(A) IN GENERAL.—With respect to any asset acquired or
liability assumed pursuant to this section, the Corporation
shall have all of the rights, powers, privileges, and authori-
A of the Corporation as receiver under sections 11 and
15(b).

“(B) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Such rights, powers, privi-
leges, and authorities shall be in addition to and not in
derogation of any rights, powers, privileges, and authorities
otherwise applicable to the Corporation.

“(C) FipucIARY RESPONSIBILITY.—In exercising any right,
power, privilege, or authority described in subparagraph
(A), the Corporation shall continue to be subject to the
fiduciary duties and obligations of the Corporation as re-
ceiver to claimants against the insured depository institu-
tion in receivership.

“(4) Loans.—The Corporation, in its discretion, may make
loans on the security of or may purchase and liquidate or sell
any part of the assets of an insured depository institution which
is now or may hereafter be in default.

“(e) AGREEMENTS AGAINST INTERESTS OF CORPORATION.—No agree-
ment which tends to diminish or defeat the interest of the Corpora-

tion in any asset acquired by it under this section or section 11,
either as security for a loan or by purchase or as receiver of any

insured depository institution, shall be valid against the Corporation
unless such agreement—

“(1) is in writing,

“(2) was executed by the depository institution and any
person claiming an adverse interest thereunder, including the
obligor, contemporaneously with the acquisition of the asset by
the depository institution,

“(3) was approved by the board of directors of the depository
institution or its loan committee, which approval shall be re-
flected in the minutes of said board or committee, and

“(4) has been, continuously, from the time of its execution, an
official record of the depository institution.”;

(5) in subsection (f)—
‘PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 108 STAT. 257

(A) by meine out “closed” and “‘closing” each place such
terms appear cept i in “closed bank”) and inserting in lieu
thereof “in etanle or “default”, res respectively;

(B) by striking out “closed bank” and inserting in lieu
thereof ‘bank in on Cl), b

(C) in paragraph (1), by inserting “savings association”
after “out-of-state bank”’;

(D) in paragraph (2XBXiii), by striking out “a unanimous
vote” and inserting in lieu thereof “a vote of 75 percent of’;

(E) by striking out “the constitution of any State,”

(F) in paragraph (6A), by inserting “the offeror which
made the initial lowest acceptable offer and” after “the

player gro f h (7) the foll

( Vy ing at end o p e following:

“(C) if in the opinion of the sa the uisition
threatens the safety and soundness of the ee or does not
result i in the future viability of the resulting depository institu-
tion.”’;

(H) in perearsen (8), by striking out subparagraphs (A),
(B), and (D) and redesignating paragraphs (C), (E), (F), and
(G) as subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D), respectively;

(I) in paragraph (9)—

(i) in the pode ita heading, by striking out
oe and inserting in lieu thereof “C

(ii) in paragraph (9A), by inserting “, other than a
subsidi that is an insured depository institution,”
after “subsidiary” and by striking out “which is not an
insured bank”; and

(iii) in paragraph (9XB), by inserting “or an affiliate
of an insured depository institution” after “intermedi-
ate holding company’; an

tee adding at the end thereof the following new para-

grap
“(12) ACQUISITION OF MINORITY BANK BY MINORITY BANK HOLD-
ING COMPANY WITHOUT REGARD TO ASSET SIZE.—
“(A) IN GENERAL.—For the purpose of ensuring continued
minority control of a minority-controlled bank, paragraphs
(2) and (3) shall apply with respect to the acquisition of a
minority-controlled bank by an out-of-State minority-con-
trolled deposito: institution or depository institution hold-
ing company without to the fact that the total assets
of such minority-controlled bank is less than $500,000,000.
“(B) DeFINITIONS.—For purposes of this paragraph:
“(i) Mtnoriry BANK.—The term ‘minority bank’
means any depository institution described in clause (i),
yo or (iii) of section 19(bX1XA) of the Federal Reserve
ct—

“(I) more than 50 percent of the ownership or
control of which is held by one or more minority
individuals; and

“(II) more than 50 percent of the net profit or
loss of which accrues to minority individ

“(ii) Mrnorrry.—The term ‘minority’ means any
Black American, Native American, Hi ic Amer-
ican, or Asian American.”’;
103 STAT. 258

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(6) in subsection (h), by striking out ‘“‘a closed insured deposi-
tory institution”, “closing”, and “insurance fund” and insertin
in lieu thereof “an insured depository institution in default’,
“default”, and “Bank Insurance Fund”’, respectively;

(7) in subsection (i)—

(A) by inserting “depository” before “institution” each
place such term appears;
(B) in paragraph (1(C)—
(i) by striking out “corporation” and inserting in lieu
thereof “Corporation”;
(ii) by striking out “chartered bank” and inserting in
lieu thereof “chartered depository institution”;
(iii) by inserting “, a savings association,” after
“State member bank”; and
(iv) y's inserting “or the Director of the Office of
Thrift Supervision” after ‘Federal Reserve System”;
(C) in paragraph (2), by striking out “or insured or
guaranteed under State law”; and
(D) by striking out paragraphs (10) and (12); and
(8) by adding at the end thereof the following:

“(k) EMERGENCY ACQUISITIONS.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—
“(A) ACQUISITIONS AUTHORIZED.—

“(i) TRANSACTIONS DESCRIBED.—Notwithstanding any
oe of State law, upon determining that severe
inancial conditions threaten the stability of a signifi-
cant number of savings associations, or of savings
associations possessing significant financial resources,
the Corporation, in its discretion and if it determines
such authorization would lessen the risk to the Cor-
poration, may authorize—

“() a savings association that is eligible for
assistance pursuant to subsection (c) to merge or
consolidate with, or to transfer its assets and liabil-
ities to, any other savings association or any in-
sured bank,

“(II any other savings association to acquire
control of such savings association, or

“(III) any company to acquire control of such
savi association or to acquire the assets or
assume the liabilities thereof.

The Corporation may not authorize any transaction
under this subsection unless the Corporation deter-
mines that the authorization will not present a
substantial risk to the safety or soundness of the sav-
ings association to be acquired or any acquiring entity.

‘(ii) TERMS OF TRANSACTIONS.—Mergers, consolida-
tions, transfers, and acquisitions under this subsection
shall be on such terms as the Corporation shall provide.

“(jii) APPROVAL BY APPROPRIATE AGENCY.—Where
otherwise required by law, transactions under this
subsection must be approves by the appropriate Fed-
eral banking agency of every party thereto.

“(iv) ACQUISITIONS BY SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—Any
Federal savings association that acquires another sav-
ings association pursuant to clause (i) may, with the
concurrence of the Director of the Office of Thrift
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 259

Supervision, hold that savings association as a subsidi-
ary notwithstanding the percentage limitations of sec-
tion 5(cX4\B) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act.

“(v) DUAL SERVICE.—Dual service by a management
official that would otherwise be prohibited under the
Depository Institution Management Interlocks Act
may, with the approval of the Corporation, continue for
up to 10 years.

“(vi) CONTINUED APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN STATE
RESTRICTIONS.—Nothing in this subsection overrides or
supersedes State laws restricting or limiting the activi-
ties of a savings association on behalf of another entity.

“(B) CONSULTATION WITH STATE OFFICIAL.—

“(j) CONSULTATION REQUIRED.—Before making a
determination to take any action under subparagraph
(A), the Corporation shall consult the State official
having jurisdiction of the acquired institution.

“(ii) des FOR STATE RESPONSE.—The official shall
be given a reasonable opportunity, and in no event less
than 48 hours, to object to the use of the provisions of
this paragraph. Such notice may be provided by the
Corporation prior to its appointment as receiver, but in
anticipation of an impending appointment.

“(iii) APPROVAL OVER OBJECTION OF STATE OFFICIAL.—
If the official objects during such period, the Corpora-
tion may use the authority of this paragraph only by a
vote of 75 percent or more of the voting members of the
Board of Directors. The Corporation shall provide to
the official, as soon as practicable, a written certifi-
cation of its determination.

“(2) SOLICITATION OF OFFERS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In considering authorizations under
this subsection, the Corporation may solicit such offers or
proposals as are practicable from any prospective pur-
chasers or merger partners it determines, in its sole discre-
tion, are both qualified and capable of acquiring the assets
and liabilities of the savings association.

“(B) MINoRITY-CONTROLLED INSTITUTIONS.—In the case of
a minority-controlled depository institution, the Corpora-
tion shall seek an offer from other minority-controlled
depository institutions before seeking an offer from other

rsons or entities.

“(3) DETERMINATION OF costs.—In determining the cost of
offers under this subsection, the Corporation’s calculations and
estimations shall be determinative. The Corporation may set
reasonable time limits on offers.

“(4) BRANCHING PROVISIONS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If a merger, consolidation, transfer, or
acquisition under this subsection involves a savings associa-
tion eligible for assistance and a bank or holding
company, a savings association may retain and operate any
existing branch or branches or any other existing facilities.
If the savings association continues to exist as a separate
entity, it may establish and operate new branches to the
same extent as any savings association that is not affiliated
with a bank holding company and the home office of which
is located in the same State.
103 STAT. 260

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(B) RESTRICTIONS.—
ie IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subparagraph
(A), if—
“(I) a savings association described in such
subparagraph does not have its home office in the
State “ the bank holding company bank subsidi-
, an
tad such association does not qualify as a domes-
tic building and loan association under section
7701(aX19) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or
does not meet the asset composition test imposed
by subparagraph (C) of that section on institutions
seeking so to qualify,
such savings association shall be subject to the condi-
tions upon which a bank may retain, operate, and
establish branches in the State in which the Savings
Association Insurance Fund member is located.
“(ii) TRANSITION PERIOD.—The Corporation, for good
cause shown, may allow a savings association up to 2
years to comply with the requirements of clause (i).
“(5) ASSISTANCE BEFORE APPOINTMENT OF CONSERVATOR OR RE-
CEIVER.—
“(A) ASSISTANCE PROPOSALS.—The Corporation shall con-
sider proposals by Savings Association Insurance Fund
members for assistance pursuant to subsection (c) before
unds exist for Sof eersneg of a conservator or receiver

or such member under the following circumstances:
“(i) TROUBLED CONDITION CRITERIA.—The Corporation
determines—

“(1 that grounds for appointment of a conserva-
tor or receiver exist or likely will exist in the
future unless the member’s tangible capital is in-
creased;

“(II) that it is unlikely that the member can
achieve P reariaaa tangible capital without assist-
ance; an

“(IID that providing assistance pursuant to the
member’s proposal would be likely to lessen the
risk to the Corporation.

“(ii) OTHER CRITERIA.—The member meets the follow-
ing criteria:

“() Before enactment of the Financial Institu-
tions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of
1989, the member was solvent under applicable
regulatory accounting principles but had negative
—— capital.

“(II) The member’s negative tangible capital
position is substantially attributable to its partici-
pation in acquisition and merger transactions that
were instituted by the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board or the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance
Corporation for supervisory reasons.

9 The member is a qualified thrift lender (as
defined in section 10(m) of the Home Owners’ Loan
Act) or would be a qualified thrift lender if
commercial real estate owned and nonperformi
commercial loans acquired in acquisition
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 261

merger transactions that were instituted by the
Federal Home Loan Bank Board or the Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation for super-
visory reasons were excluded from the member’s
total assets.

“(IV) The appropriate Federal banking agency
has determined that the member’s management is
competent and has complied with applicable laws,
rules, and supervisory directives and orders.

. “(V) The member’s management did not engage
in insider dealing or speculative practices or other
activities that jeopardized the member’s safety and
soundness or contributed to its impaired capital
position.

“(VI) The member’s offices are located in an
economically depressed region.

“(B) CORPORATION CONSIDERATION OF ASSISTANCE PRO-
POSAL.—If a member meets the requirements of clauses (i)
and (ii) of subparagraph (A), the Corporation shall consider
providing direct financial assistance.

“(C) ECONOMICALLY DEPRESSED REGION DEFINED.—For pur-
poses of this paragraph, the term ‘economically depressed
region’ means any geographical region which the Corpora-
tion determines by regulation to be a region within which
real estate values have suffered serious decline due to
severe economic conditions, such as a decline in energy or
agricultural values or prices.”’.

SEC, 218, FDIC BORROWING AUTHORITY.

ppm 14 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1824) is
amended—

(1) by striking out ‘$3,000,000,000 outstanding at any one

time” and inserting in lieu thereof “$5,000,000, outstanding

at any one time, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the

; and
(2) by adding at the end the following: “The Corporation may
employ such funds for pu of the k Insurance Fund or

the Savings Association urance Fund and the borrowing
shall become a liability of each such fund to the extent funds
are employed therefor. There are hereby Ne a gah to the
Secretary, for fiscal year 1989 and each fi year thereafter,
such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.”; and

(3) by “apie out “the current average rate on outstanding
marketable and nonmarketable obligations of the United States
as of the last day of the month preceding the making of such
loan” and ——. lieu thereof the following: “an amount
determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consid-
eration current market yields on outstanding marketable
obligations of the United States of comparable maturities”’.

SEC. 219. EXEMPTION FROM TAXATION; LIMITATION ON BORROWING.

— 15 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1825) is
amended—
(1) by inserting “(a) GENERAL Ruie.—” before “All”; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
“(b) OrHER ExemprTions.— When acting as a receiver, the following
provisions shall apply with respect to the Corporation:
103 STAT. 262

Taxes.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(1) The Corporation including its franchise, its capital, re-
serves, and surplus, and its income, shall be exempt from all
taxation imposed by any State, county, municipality, or local
taxing authority, except that any real property of the Corpora-
tion shall be subject to State, territorial, county, municipal, or
local taxation to the same extent according to its value as other
real property is taxed, except that, notwithstanding the failure
of any person to challe an assessment under State law of
such property’s value, such value, and the tax thereon, shall be
determined as of the period for which such tax is im ;

‘(2) No property of the Corporation shall be subject to levy,
attachment, garnishment, foreclosure, or sale without the con-
sent of the Corporation, nor shall any involuntary lien attach to
the ae ag of the Corporation.

“(3) The Corporation shall not be liable for any amounts in
the nature of penalties or fines, including those arising from the
failure of any person to pay any real property, personal prop-
exty, ga or recording tax or any recording or filing fees
when due.

This subsection shall not apply with respect to any tax imposed (or

other amount arising) un
““(c) LIMITATION ON BORROWING.—

er the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

“(1) Cost ESTIMATE FOR OUTSTANDING OBLIGATIONS LIABIL-
1T1Es.—As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of the
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act
of 1989, the Corporation shall estimate the aggregate cost to the
Corporation for all outstanding obligations and guarantees of
the Corporation which were issued, and all outstanding liabil-
ities which were incurred, by the Corporation before such date.

“(2) ESTIMATE OF NOTES AND OTHER OBLIGATIONS REQUIRED.—
Before issuing an obligation or making a antee, the Cor-
poration shall estimate the cost of such obligations or guaran-
tees

“(3) INCLUSION OF ESTIMATES IN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.—The
Corporation shall—

“(A) reflect in its financial statements the estimates
made by the Corporation under paragraphs (1) and (2) of the
aggregate amount of the costs to the Corporation for
outstanding obligations and other liabilities, and

“(B) make such adjustments as are appropriate in the
estimate of such aggregate amount not less frequently than
quarterly.

ste ESTIMATE OF OTHER ASSETS REQUIRED.—The Corporation
8. —

“(A) estimate the market value of assets held by it as a
result of case resolution activities, with a reduction for
expenses expected to be incurred by the Corporation in
connection with the management and sale of such assets;

‘(B) reflect the amounts so estimated in its financial
statements; and

“(C) make such adjustments as are appropriate of such
market value not less than quarterly.

“(5) MINIMUM NET WORTH REQUIRED.—The Corporation may
not issue any note or similar obligation, and may not incur any
liability under a guarantee or similar obligation, with respect to
either the Bank Insurance Fund or the Savings Association
Insurance Fund if, after reduction for the estimated cost of the
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 263

obligation or guarantee, the net worth of the affected insurance
fund would be less than 10 percent of assets.

“(6) Exception.—With the prior approval of the Secretary of
the Treasury, the Corporation may issue or incur up to
$5,000,000,000 in the aggregate of additional liabilities in excess
of the limitations of paragraph (5). The amount which the
Corporation may borrow from the under section 14 of
this Act shall be reduced by the amount of additional liabilities
issued or incurred under this paragraph.

“(7) NET WORTH AND ASSET VALUATION.—For the purpose of

ph (5)—

“(A) the assets of the Bank Insurance Fund or the Sav-
ings Association Insurance Fund shall be calculated based
on the most recent audit of such Fund by the Comptroller
General of the United States, subject to any adjustments
described in paragraph (3) or (4) and taking into account
any subsequent transactions; and

‘(B) the net worth of the Bank Insurance Fund or the
Savings Association Insurance Fund shall be calculated
based on the most recent audit of such Fund by the
Comptroller General of the United States, subject to any
adjustments described in paragraphs (3) and (4) and taking
into account any subsequent transactions.

“(d) Fut. FarrH ANp Crepit.—The full faith and credit of the
United States is pledged to the payment of any obligation issued
after the date of the enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 by the Corporation, with
respect to both principal and interest, if—

“(1) the principal amount of such obligation is stated in the
obligation; and
“(2) the term to maturity or the date of maturity of such
obligation is stated in the obligation.”.
SEC. 220. REPORTS.

(a) In GeNERAL.—Section 17 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
& be aan at aieiti (a) and the foll

striking out su ion (a) and inserti ollowing:

“(a) ANNUAL Reports ON BIF, SAIF, anp THE FSLIC REeso.uTtion

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation shall annually submit a
full report of its operations, activities, budget, receipts, and
expenditures for the preceding 12-month period. The report
shall include, with respect to the Bank Insurance Fund, the
Savings Association Insurance Fund, and the FSLIC Resolution
Fund, an analysis by the Corporation of—

“(A) the current financial condition of each such fund;

“(B) the purpose, effect, and estimated cost of each resolu-
tion action taken for an insured depository institution
during the preceding year;

“(C) the extent to which the actual costs of assistance
provided to, or for the benefit of, an insured de itory
institution during the preceding year exceeded the esti-
mated costs of such assistance reported in a previous year
on) the a f each fund hanges

sh exposure of each insurance toc in
one. — factors most likely to affect the condition of

und;
103 STAT. 264

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(E) a current estimate of the resources needed for the
Bank Insurance Fund, the a Insurance
Fund, or the FSLIC Resolution d to achieve the pur-
poses ‘of this Act; and
“(F) any findings, conclusions, and recommendations for
liwishetive and administrative actions considered appro-
San to future resolution activities by the Corporation.
“(2) MANNER OF SUBMISSION.—Such report shall be submitted
to the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of
Representatives, who shall cause the same to be printed for the
information of Congress, and the President as soon as prac-
ticable after the first day of January each year.’
(2) by redesignating subsections (b), (c), and @ as (e), (f), and
(g), respectively; and
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsec-
tions:

“(b) QUARTERLY REPORTS TO TREASURY.—

“(1) FINANCIAL OPERATING PLANS AND FORECASTS.—Before the
beginning of each fiscal quarter, the Corporation shall provide
to the Secretary of the Seeanuy a copy of the Corporation’s
financial operating plans and forecasts.

“(2) FINANCIAL CONDITION AND REPORTS OF OPERATIONS.—AS
soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal quarter, the
Corporation shall submit to the Secretary of the Treasury a
copy of the report of the Corporation’s financial condition as of
the end of such fiscal quarter and the results of the Corpora-
tion’s operations during such fiscal quarter.

(3) ITEMS TO BE INCLUDED.—The plans, forecasts, and reports
required under this subsection shall reflect the estimates re-
quired to be made under section 15(b) of the liabilities and
obligations of the Corporation described in such section.

“(4) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—The Reape ns to provide
plans, forecasts, and reports to the ey of the Treasury
under this subsection may not be construed as implying any

‘obligation on the part of the Corporation to obtain the consent

or approval of such Secretary with respect to such plans, fore-
casts, and reports.

“(c) Reports TO OMB.—

“(1) FINANCIAL INFORMATION.—The Corporation shall con-
tinue to provide to the Director of the ce of Management
and Budget financial information consistent with that con-
tained in the reports that were being provided to the Director
immediately prior to the effective date of the Financial Institu-
tions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989.

“(2) FINANCIAL OPERATING PLANS AND FORECASTS.—The Cor-
poration shall also provide to the Director copies of the Corpora-
tion’s financial operating plans and — as prepared by the

pe Seabee in the ordinary course of its operations, and copies

e quarterly reports of the Corporation's financial condition
soi results of operations as prepared by the Corporation in the
o course of its operations.

“(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—This subsection may not be
construed as implying any obligation on the part of the Corpora-
tion to consult with or obtain the consent or approval of the
Director with respect to any reports, plans, forecasts, or other
information referred to in onagraih (1) or (2) or any jurisdic-
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 265

tion or oversight over the affairs or operations of the Corpora-
tion.
“(d) AupiT.—

“(1) AUDIT REQUIRED.—The Comptroller General shall audit
annually the financial transactions of the Corporation, the
Bank Insurance Fund, the Savings Association Insurance Fund,
and the FSLIC Resolution Fund in accordance with generally
accepted government auditing standards.

“(2) goer ge a estas RB books, fenede, had
counts, repo: es, and prope onging to or y the
Corporation, the Bank “aed sistent Sore the Sasines Association
Insurance Fund, and the FSLIC Resolution Fund, or by an
independent certified public accountant retained to audit the
Fund’s financial statements, shall be made available to the
Comptroller General.”’.

(b) Speciric Reports.—

(1) Risk-BASED ASSESSMENTS.— 12 USC 1827

(A) REporT REQUIRED.—The Federal Deposit Insurance note.
Corporation shall study the establishment of premium
assessment categories related to types of risk to the insur-
ance funds and shall report its recommendations to the
Congress not later than Jan 1, 1991. If the Corporation
should recommend the establishment of such a risk-based
assessment plan, it shall also provide a timetable and plan
for a.

(B) CONGRESSIONAL RESPONSE.—Not later than 180 days
after receipt by the —— of the report required under
sub h (A) and the accompanying plan and time-
table, the Congress shall make a recommendation to the

irperson of the Board of Directors regarding the disposi-
tion of such plan and timetable.

(2) SruDY OF DEPOSIT INSURANCE PASS-THROUGH.—Not later
than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall transmit to the
Congress a pr ey containing its findings and recommendations
relating to pass-through of deposit insurance either to
piers investors in unit poipeaners trust funds Ls to ——

participants in pension or to profit ing p i
under acon, 401 of the Internal sacra of 1986. Such
report shall also contain the Corporation’s assessment of the
potential effects of broadening deposit insurance coverage on
the — of the insurance funds and the operation of capital
markets.

(3) REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ AND OFFICERS’ LIABILITY INSUR-
ANCE.—

(A) Srupy.—The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
shall, together with the Secretary of the Treasury and the
ee | General, conduct a comprehensive study of direc-
tors’ and officers’ liability insurance and depository institu-
tion bonds, and the availability of such insurance for
directors and officers of insured depository institutions. The
study shall include—

(i) consideration of State laws limiting liability for
i rs and officers;
(ii) the effect of contractual provisions limiting insur-
ance coverage when an institution is placed in receiver-
ship or conservatorship;
103 STAT. 266

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(iii) provisions limiting coverage when a claim is
— by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
an

(iv) provisions limiting claims made by one insured
against another insured.

In addition, the study shall consider the need for such
insurance or bonds and the effect any change in any of the
above noted conditions or terms may have on the future
availability of such insurance, and the ability of depository
institutions to attract qualified officers and directors.

(B) Rerort.—Not later than 6 months after the date of
enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989, the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, together with the Secretary of the Treas-
ury and the Attorney General, shall report the findings
from the study under subparagraph (A) to the Congress,
together with legislative recommendations, if appropriate.

SEC. 221. REGULATIONS GOVERNING INSURED DEPOSITORY INSTITU-

TIONS.

Section 18 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828) is

amended—

(1) by striking out “(a)” and the lst 2 sentences of subsection
(a) and inserting the following:

“(a) INSURANCE LoGo.—

“(1) INSURED SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—Each insured savings
association shall display at each place of business maintained by
such association a sign containing only the following items:

“(A) A statement that insured deposits are backed by the
full faith and credit of the United States Government.
“(B) A statement that deposits are federally insured to
$100,000.
“(C) The symbol of an eagle.
The sign shall not contain any reference to a Government
agency and shall accord each item substantially equal promi-
nence.

“(2) INSURED BANKS.—Not later than 30 days after the date of
enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and
Enforcement Act of 1989, each insured bank shall display at
each place of business maintained by such bank one of the
following:

“(A) The sign required to be displayed by insured banks
under regulations prescribed by the Corporation in effect
on January 1, 1989.

“(B) The sign prescribed under paragraph (1).

“(3) ReEGULATIONS.—The Corporation shall prescribe regula-
tions to carry out the ce of this subsection, including
regulations governing the manner of display or use of such
signs, except that the size of the sign prescribed under para-
graph (1) s be similar to that prescribed under paragraph
(2A). Initial regulations under this subsection shall be pre-
scribed on the date of enactment of the Financial Institutions
Recovery, Reform, al Enforcement Act of 1989.”;

(2) in subsection (c

(A) in paragra sph ©, (2), By striking out subparagraph (C) and
inserting the fol
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 267

‘“(C) the Corporation if the acquiring, assuming, or resulting
bank is to be a State nonmember insured bank (except a District
bank or a savings bank supervised by the Director of the Office
of Thrift Supervision); and

‘“(D) the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision if the
acquiring, assuming, or resulting institution is to be a savings
association.”

5 apse ns ), (4), ah @, (a d (9), b afte
(C) in paragra » an y inserting r
the word ‘ “bank” 0 ” each time it appears, the
words “‘or sa Pe sn or “or savings associations”,
"°tby in paragraph (3), b riking fail d
in paragrap y st out “failure” and insert-
ing in lieu thereof “default”;
(3) in pagers GiX2)—
(A) by stri out “insured bank” and inserting in lieu
thereof “ins Federal depository institution”;
(B) by striking out “insured State bank” and inserting in
lieu thereof “insured State cried atthe end of sub
(C) by striking out the period sy e end of subpargraph
(C) and inserting in lieu thereof “;
o by em after Saran © the following new
subparagraph:
“(D) the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision if the
resulting institution is to be an insured State savings
association.”

(E) in paragraph (4XD), by inserting “and fitness” after

he rte and

striking out pases (5); and
(4) by lh Mars at the end the d the following:

“(m) Activities oF SavinGs ASSOCIATIONS AND THEIR SuBsIp1-
ARIES.—

“(1) Procepures.—When an insured savings association
establishes or acquires a subsidiary or when an insured sa
association elects to conduct any new activity through a subsidi-
ary that the insured savings association controls, the insured
savings association—

“(A) shall notify the Corporation and the Director of the
Office of Thrift Supervision not less than 30 days prior to
the establishment, or acquisition, of any such subsidiary,
and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of
any such activity, and in either case shall provide at that
time such information as each such agency may, by regula-
tion, require; and

“(B) shall conduct the activities of the subsidiary in
accordance with tions and orders of the Director of
the Office of Thrift Supervision.

“(2) ENFORCEMENT POWERS.— With respect to any subsidiary of
an insured the Ce association:

“(A) th rporation and the Director of the Office of

Supervision shall each have, with respect to such
subsidiary, the respective powers that each has with
to the insured savings association pursuant to this section
or section 8; and

“(B) the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision may
determine, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that
the continuation by the insured savings association of its
103 STAT. 268

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

ownership or control of, or its relationship to, the sub-
“(i) constitutes a serious risk to the safety, soundness,
or stability of the insured savings association, or
“(ii) is inconsistent with sound banking principles or
with the purposes of this Act.
Upon making any such determination, the Corporation or
the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision shall have
authority to order the insured savings association to divest
itself of control of the subsidiary. The Director of the Office
of Thrift Supervision may take any other corrective meas-
ures with respect to the subsidiary, including the authority
to require the subsidiary to terminate the activities or
operations posing such risks, as the Director may deem
appropriate.

“(3) ACTIVITIES INCOMPATIBLE WITH DEPOSIT INSURANCE.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation may determine by
regulation or order that any specific activity poses a serious
threat to the Savings Association Insurance Fund. Prior to
_ ns any such regulation, the Corporation shall consult

the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision and
chal provide appropriate State supervisors the opportunity
o comment thereon, and the Corporation shall specifically
ake such comments into consideration. Any such regula-
ion shall be issued in accordance with section 553 of title 5,
Jnited States Code. If the Board of Directors makes such a
jetermination with respect to an activity, the Corporation
shall have authority to order that no Savings Association
Insurance Fund member may engage in the activity di-
rectly.

“(B) AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR.—This section does not limit
the authority of the Office of Thrift Supervision to issue
meguiens to promote safety and soundness or to enforce

mpliance with other applicable laws.

on ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY OF FDIC TO PREVENT SERIOUS
RISKS TO INSURANCE FUND.—Notwithstanding subparagraph
(A), the Corporation may prescribe and enforce such regula-
tions and issue such orders as the Corporation determines
to be necessary to prevent actions or practices of savings
associations that pose a serious threat to the Savings
Association Insurance Fund or the Bank Insurance Fund.

“(4) ‘SUBSIDIARY’ DEFINED.—As used in this subsection, the
term ‘subsidiary’ does not include an insured depository institu-
tion.

“(5) APPLICABILITY TO CERTAIN SAVINGS BANKS.—Subpara-
graphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) of this subsection do not
apply to— . ;

“(A) any Federal savings bank that was chartered prior
to October 15, 1982, as a savings bank under State law, or

“(B) a savings association that acquired its principal
assets from an institution that was chartered prior to Octo-
ber 15, 1982, as a savings bank under State law.

“(n) CALCULATION OF CapITAL.—No appropriate Federal banking
agency shall allow any insured depository institution to include an
unidentifiable intangible asset in its calculation of compliance with
the appropriate capital standard, if such unidentifiable intangible

¢
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 269

asset was acquired after April 12, 1989, except to the extent per-
mitted under section 5(t) of the Home Owners’ Act.”

SEC. 222. ACTIVITIES OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Act is amended by adding at the
end the following new section:

“SEC. 28. ACTIVITIES OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS, 12 USC 183le.

“(a) In GeNERAL.—On and after January 1, 1990, a savings
association chartered under State law may not engage as principal
in any Gre of activity, or in any activity in an amount, that is not
pe ible for a Federal savings association unless—

“(1) the Corporation has determined that the activity would
= ignificant risk to the affected deposit insurance fund;
an

“(2) the savings association is and continues to be in compli-
ance with the fully phased-in capital standards prescri
under section 5(t) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act.

‘(b) DirFERENCES OF MAGNITUDE BETWEEN STATE AND FEDERAL
Powers.—Notwithstanding subsection (a\(1), if an activity (other
than an activity described in section 5(cX2\(B) of the Home Owners’
Loan Act) is —— ible for a Federal savings association, a savings
association red under State law may engage as principal in
that activity in an amount greater than the amount permissible for
a Federal savings association if—

“(1) the Corporation has not determined that engaging in that
amount of the activity poses any significant risk to the affected
deposit insurance fund; and

‘(2) the savings association chartered under State law is and
continues to be in compliance with the fully phased-in capital
peers prescribed under section 5(t) of the Home Owners’

“(c) Equity INVESTMENTS BY STaTE SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), a
savings association chartered ee Pee directly
acquire or retain any equity in ent of a or in an
amount that is not permissible for a Federal savings association.

“(2) EXCEPTION FOR SERVICE CORPORATIONS.—Paragraph (1)
does not prohibit a savings association from ss or retain-
ing shares of one or more service corporations if—

“(A) the Corporation has determined that no significant
risk to the affected deposit insurance fund is posed by—
“(i) the amount that the association proposes to
acquire or retain, or
“(ii) the activities in which the service corporation
engages; and

“(B) the savings association is and continues to be in
compliance with the fully phased-in capital standards vg
scribed under section 5(t) of the Home Owners’ Loan 5

“(3) TRANSITION RULE.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation shall require any
savings association to divest any equity investment the
retention of which is not permissible under paragraph (1) or
(2) as quickly as can be prudently done, and in any event
not later than July 1, 1994.
103 STAT. 270

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(B) TREATMENT OF NONCOMPLIANCE DURING DIVEST-
MENT.—With respect to any equity investment held by any
savi association on May 1, 1989, the savings association
shall be deemed not to be in violation of the prohibition in
paragraph (1) or (2) on retaining such investment so long as
the savings association complies with any applicable
requirement established by the Corporation pursuant to
subparagraph (A) for divesting such investments.

“(d) Corporate Dest Securities Not or INVESTMENT GRADE.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—No savings association may, directly or
through a subsidiary, acquire or retain any corporate debt
security not of investment grade.

“(2) EXCEPTION FOR SECURITIES HELD BY QUALIFIED AFFILIATE.—
Paragraph (1) shall not apply with res to any corporate debt
security not of investment grade which is acquired and retained
by any qualified affiliate of a savings association.

“(3). TRANSITION RULE.—

‘“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation shall require any
savings association or any subsidiary of any savings associa-
tion to divest any corpeente debt security not of investment
grade the retention of which is not permissible under para-
graph (1) as quickly as can be lode ently done, and in any
event not later than July 1, 1994.

“(B) TREATMENT OF NONCOMPLIANCE DURING DIVEST-
MENT.—With res to any corporate debt security not of
investment grade held by any savings association or
subsidiary on the date of enactment of the Financial
Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of
1989, the savings association or subsidiary shall be deemed
not to be in violation of the prohibition in paragraph (1) on
retaining such investment so long as the association or
subsidiary complies with any applicable requirement estab-
lished by the Corporation pursuant to subparagraph (A) for
divesting such securities.

“(4) DeFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section—

“(A) INVESTMENT GRADE.—Any corporate debt security is
not of ‘investment grade’ unless that security, when ac-
quired by the savings association or subsidiary, was rated in
one of the 4 highest rating categories by at least one
nationally recognized statistical rating organization.

“(B) QUALIFIED AFFILIATE.—The term ‘qualified affiliate’
means—

“(i) in the case of a stock savings association, an
affiliate other than a subsidiary or an insured deposi-
tory institution; and

“(ii)-in the case of a mutual savings association, a
subsidiary other than an insured depository institution,
so long as all of the savings association’s investments in
and extensions of credit to the subsidiary are deducted
from the savings association’s capital.

“(C) CERTAIN SECURITIES NOT INCLUDED.—The term ‘cor-
porate debt security not of investment grade’ does not
include any obligation issued or ranteed by a corpora-
tion that may be held by a Federal savings association
without limitation as to percentage of assets under subpara-
ay ke (E), or (F) of section 5(cX1) of the Home Owners’

ct.
PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 271

“(e) TRANSFER OF CORPORATE Dest SECURITY NOT OF INVESTMENT
GRADE IN EXCHANGE FOR A QUALIFIED NoTE.—

“(1) ACQUISITION OF NOTE.—Notwithstanding subsections (a),
(b), and (c) of section 5 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act and any
other — ion of Federal or State law governing extensions of
credit by savings associations, any insured savings association,
and any subsidiary of any i savings association, that, on
the date of the enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, holds any corporate
debt security not of investment grade may acquire a qualified
note in exchange for the transfer of such et, a

“(A) any holding company which controls 80 percent or
more of the shares of such insured savi association; or
“(B) any —— other than an i savings associa-
tion, or any idi of any insured savings association,
80 pers or more of the shares of which are controlled by
such holding company,
if the conditions of paragraph (2) are met.

“(2) CONDITIONS FOR EXCHANGE OF SECURITY FOR QUALIFIED
NoTE.—The conditions of this paragraph are met if—

“(A) the insured savings association was in compliance
with applicable capital requirements on December 31, 1988,
and the insured savings association after such date—

“(i) remains in compliance with applicable capital
requirements; or

(ii) adopts and complies with a capital pion accept-

able to the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision;

“(B) the company to which the corporate debt security
not of investment grade is transferred is not a bank holding
company, an insured savings association, or a direct or
indirect subsidiary of such holding company or insured
saMO bel rape f the 90-da oe ening h

i ore the end of the y peri inning on the
date of the enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, the insured savings
association notifies the Director of the Office of Thrift
Supervision of such association’s intention to transfer the
corporate debt security not of investment grade to the
rae and loan holding company or the subsidiary of such

olding company;

“(D) the transfer of the corporate debt security not of
MT eine ek end of the t ii teginning

“G ore the en e l-year peri inning on
the dats gf tie enactment of the Pinanclal inetitutions
Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, in the
case of an insured savings association that, as of such
date, is controlled by a savings and loan holding com-

pany; or
“(ii) before the end of the 2-year period beginning on
such date, in the case of a savings association that is
not, as of such date, a subsidiary of a savings and loan
holding company;
“(E) the insured savings association receives in exc
for the corporate debt security not of investment grade the
fair market value of such security;
“(F) the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision has—
“(i) approved the transaction; and
103 STAT. 272

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(ii) determined that the transfer represents a com-
plete and effective divestiture of the corporate debt
security not of investment grade and is in compliance
with the provisions of this subsection; and

“(G) any gain on the sale of the corporate debt security
not of investment grade is recognized, and included for
applicable regulatory capital requirements, by the insured
savings association only at such time and to the extent that
the insured savings association receives a of prin-
cipal on the note in cash in excess of the fair market value
of the transferred corporate debt security not of investment
grade as carried on the accounts of the insured savings
association immediately prior to the transfer.

“(3) QUALIFIED NOTE DEFINED.—The term ‘qualified note’
means any note that—

“(A) is at all times fully secured by the corporate debt
security not of investment grade transferred in exchange
for the note, or by other collateral of at least equivalent
value that is acceptable to the Director of the Office of
Thrift Supervision;

“(B) contains provisions acceptable to the Director of the
Office of Thrift Supervision that would—

“j) prevent any action to encumber or impair the
vee of the collateral referred to in subparagraph (A);
an

“(ii) allow the sale of the corporate debt security not
of investment grade if the proceeds of the sale are
reinvested in assets of equivalent value;

“(C) is on market terms, including interest rate, which
must in all cases be above the insured savings association’s
borrowing rate for similar term funds;

“(D) is fully repayable over a period of time not to exceed
5 years from the date of transfer; .

“(E) is repaid with annual principal payments at least as
large as would be necessary to repay the note within 5
years if it were on a level payment amortization schedule
and the interest rate for the first year of repayment were
fixed Np it the amortization period;

“(F) is fully guaranteed by each holding company of the
insured savings association that acquires such note; and

“(G) is repaid in full in cash in accordance with its terms
and this subsection.

“(4) FAILURE TO REPAY ON SCHEDULE.—The exemption pro-
vided by this subsection from subsections (a), (b), and (c) of
section 11 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act any other applicable
provision of Federal or State law shall terminate immediately if

the insured savi association or any affiliate of such associa-
tion fails to comply with the terms of the qualified note or this
subsection.

“(f) DETERMINATIONS.—The Corporation shall make determina-

tions under this section by regulation or order.

“(g) Acriviry Derinep.—For purposes of subsections (a) and (b)—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘activity’ includes acquiring or
retaining any investment.
“(2) DIVESTITURE OF CERTAIN ASSETS.— Notwithstanding para-
graph (1), subsections (a) and (b) shall not be construed to
require a savings association to divest itself of any assets ac-
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 278

quired before the date of enactment of the Financial Institu-
tions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989.
“(h) Disclosures By UNINSURED SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Any savings association the deposits of
which are not insured by the Corporation under this Act shall
disclose clearly and conspicuously in periodic statements of
account and in all advertising that the savings association’s
deposits are ‘not federally insured’.

(2) MANNER AND CONTENT.—The Corporation may, by regula-

tion or order, prescribe the manner and content of the disclo-

sure.

“(3) ENFORCEMENT.—Compliance with the requirements of
this subsection, and any regulation prescribed or order issued
under this subsection, be enforced under section 8 in the
same manner and to the same extent as if the savings associa-
tion were an insured State nonmember bank.

“(j) Orner AutHority Nor Arrecrep.—This section may not be
construed as limiting—

“(1) any other authority of the Corporation; or

“(2) any authority of the Director of the Office of Thrift
Supervision or of a State to impose more stringent restric-
tions.”’.

SEC. 223. NONDISCRIMINATION.

Section 22 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1830) is
amended to read as follows:

“SEC. 22. NONDISCRIMINATION.

“Tt is not the purpose of this Act to discriminate in any manner
against State nonmember banks or State savings associations and in
favor of national or member banks or Federal savings associations,
respectively. It is the purpose of this Act to provide all banks and
savings associations with the same opportunity to obtain and enjoy
the benefits of this Act.”.

SEC. 224. BROKERED DEPOSITS.

(a) In GENERAL.—The Federal Deposit Insurance Act is amended
by inserting after section 28 (as added by section 222 of this title) the
following new section:

“SEC. 29. BROKERED DEPOSITS. 12 USC 1831f.

“(a) In GeneRAL.—A troubled institution may not accept funds
obtained, directly or indirectly, by or through any deposit broker for
deposit into 1 or more deposit accounts.

‘(b) RENEWALS AND ROLLOVERS TREATED AS ACCEPTANCE OF
FUNDs.—Any renewal of an account in any troubled institution and
any rollover of any amount on deposit in any such account shall be
treated as an acceptance of funds by such troubled institution for

of subsection (a).

“(c) Watver AuTHORITY.—The Corporation may, on a case-by-case
basis and upon Regen by an insured depository institution,
waive the applicability of subsection (a) upon a finding that the
acceptance of such deposits does not constitute an unsafe or unsound
practice with res to such institution.

“(d) Lumrrep EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN CONSERVATORSHIPS.—In the
case of any insured depository institution for which the Corporation
has been appointed as conservator, subsection (a) shall not apply to
103 STAT. 274 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

the acceptance of deposits (described in such subsection) by such
institution if the Corporation determines that the acceptance of
such deposits—

“(1) is not an unsafe or unsound practice; and

“(2) either—

“(A) is necessary to enable the institution to meet the
demands of its depositors or pay its obligations in the
ordinary course of business; or

“(B) is consistent with the conservator’s fiduciary duty to
minimize the losses of the institution.

“(e) ADDITIONAL REsTRICTIONS.—The Corporation may impose, by
regulation or order, such additional restrictions on the acceptance of
brokered deposits by any troubled institution as the Corporation
may determine to be appropriate.

“(f) DerrntTions RELATING To Deposit BROKER.—

“(1) Deposrr BROKER.—The term ‘deposit broker’ means—

“(A) any person engaged in the business of placing de-
posits, or facilitating the placement of deposits, of third
parties with insured depository institutions or the business
of placing deposits with insured depository institutions for
the purpose of selling interests in those deposits to third
parties; and

“(B) an agent or trustee who establishes a deposit account
to facilitate a business arrangement with an insured deposi-
tory institution to use the proceeds of the account to fund a

rearranged loan.
“(2) ExcLusions.—The term ‘deposit broker’ does not
include—

“(A) an insured depository institution, with respect to
funds placed with that depository institution;

‘(B) an employee of an insured depository institution,
with respect to funds placed with the employing depository
institution;

“(C) a trust department of an insured depository institu-
tion, if the trust in question has not been established for the
primary purpose of placing funds with insured depository
institutions;

“(D) the trustee of a pare or other employee benefit
plan, with respect to funds of the plan;

“(E) a person acting as a plan administrator or an invest-
ment adviser in connection with a pension plan or other
employee benefit plan provided that that person is perform-
ing managerial functions with respect to the plan;

‘(F) the trustee of a testamentary account;

“(G) the trustee of an irrevocable trust (other than one
described in paragraph (1XB)), as long as the trust in ques-
tion has not been established for the primary purpose of
placing funds with insured depository institutions;

“(H) a trustee or custodian of a pension or pret een

lan qualified under section 401(d) or 403(a) of the Intern
venue Code of 1986; or

“(I) an agent or nominee whose primary purpose is not
the placement of funds with depository institutions.

“(3) INCLUSION OF DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS ENGAGING IN CER-
TAIN ACTIVITIES.—Notwithstanding paragraph (2), the term ‘de-
posit broker’ includes any insured depository institution, and
any employee of any insured depository institution, which en-
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 275

gages, directly or indirectly, in the solicitation of deposits b
offering rates of interest (with respect to such deposits) whi
are significantly higher than the prevailing rates of interest on
deposits offered by other insured depository institutions havi
the same type of charter in such depository institution’s no
market area.
“(4) Empiover.—For purposes of this subsection, the term

‘employee’ means any employee—

(A) who is employed exclusively by the insured deposi-

tory institution;
“(B) whose compensation is primarily in the form of a

“(C) who does not share such employee’s compensation
with a deposit broker; and
“(D) whose office space or place of business is used exclu-
sively for the benefit of the insured depository institution
which employs such individual.
“(g) TROUBLED INSTITUTION DEFINED.—The term ‘troubled institu-
tion’ means any insured depository institution which does not meet
the crag capital requirements applicable with respect to such
institution.”.
duly bine eel ae ease
apply posits r en peri note.
beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act. *

SEC. 225. CONTRACTS BETWEEN DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND PER-
SONS PROVIDING GOODS, PRODUCTS, OR SERVICES.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 et a? 1 is
amended by inserting after section 29 (as added by section 224 of this
title) the following new section:

“SEC. 30. CONTRACTS BETWEEN DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND PER- 12 USC 183lg.
SONS PROVIDING GOODS, PRODUCTS, OR SERVICES.

“(a) IN GeNERAL.—An insured depository institution may not
enter into a written or oral contract with any person to provide
goods, products, or services to or for the benefit of such wr rma
institution if the performance of such contract would adversely
affect the safety or soundness of the institution.

“(b) RULEMAKING.—The Corporation shall prescribe such regula- Regulations.
tions and issue. such orders, including definitions consistent with
this section, as may be necessary to administer and carry out the
rrpoee of, and prevent evasions of, this section.

“(c) ENFORCEMENT.—Any action taken by any appropriate Federal
banking agency under section 8 to enforce compliance on the part of
any insured itory institution with the requirements of this
section may include a requirement that such institution properly
reflect the transaction on its books and records.

“(d) No Private Ricut or Action.—This section may not be
construed as creating any private right of action.

“(e) Srupy.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General and the Comptroller
General of the United States shall jointly conduct a study on
the extent to which—

“(A) insured depository institutions are entering into con-
tracts with vendors under which venders agree to
stock or assets from insured depository institutions or to
invest capital in or make deposits in such institutions; and
103 STAT. 276 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 |

“(B) if such practices occur, the extent to which such
eign et are having an anticompetitive effect and should
prohibited.

(2) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Before the end of the 1-year period
a on the date of the enactment of the Financial Institu-
tions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, the
Attorney General and the Comptroller General shall submit a
report to the Congress on the results of the study conducted
pursuant to paragraph (1).”.

SEC. 226. SAVINGS ASSOCIATION INSURANCE FUND INDUSTkY ADVISORY
COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.) is
amended by inserting after section 30 (as added by section 225 of this
title) the following new section:

12 USC 1881h. “SEC. 31. SAVINGS ASSOCIATION INSURANCE FUND INDUSTRY ADVISORY
COMMITTEE.

“(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is hereb y established the Savings
Association Insurance Fund Industry Advisory Committee (herein-
after referred to in this section as the ‘Committee’).

“(b) MemMBersHip.—The Committee shall consist of 18 members,
appointed as follows:

“(1) 1 member elected from each Federal home loan bank
district (by the members of the Board of Directors of each such
bank who were elected by the members of such bank) from
among individuals residing therein who are officers of insured
depository institutions that are Savings Association Insurance

Fund members.
(2) 6 members Se by the Corporation from among
individuals who s represent the public interest.

“(c) VACANCIES.—Any vacancy on the Committee shall be filled in
the same manner in which the original appointment was made.

“(d) Pay anD Expenses.—Members of the Committee shall serve
without pay, but each member shall be reimbursed, in such manner
as the Corporation shall prescribe by regulation, for expenses in-
curred in connection with attendance of such members at meetings
of the Committee.

“(e) Terms.—Members shall be appointed or elected for terms of 1
year.

“(f) AUTHORITY OF THE CoMMITTEE.—The Committee may select its

rson, Vice Chairperson, and Secretary, and adopt methods of
Pp ure, and shall have power—

“(1) to confer with the Board of Directors on general and
special business conditions and regulatory and other matters
affecting insured financial institutions that are members of the
Savings Association Insurance Fund; and

“(2) to request information, and to make recommendations,
with respect to matters within the jurisdiction of the Corpora-
tion.

“(g) MeeTINGs.—The Committee shall meet 4 times each year, and
more frequently if requested by the Corporation.

“(h) Reports.—The Committee shall submit a semiannual written
report to the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of
the House and to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs of the Senate. Such report shall describe the activities of the
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 277

Committee for such semiannual period and contain such rec-
ommendations as the Committee considers appropriate.

“(ij) Provision oF StaFF AND OrHER Resources.—The Corporation
shall provide the Committee with the use of such resources, includ-
ing staff, as the Committee reasonab enews ag ar ay Raa
duties, including the preparation and submission of reports to Con-
gress, under this section.

“(j) FeperaL Apvisory CommirtTes Act Dogs Not Appiy.—The

ederal Advisory Committee Act shall not apply to the Committee.

“(k) Sunset.—The Committee shall cease to exist 10 years after
the enactment of this section.”.

TITLE III—SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS

SEC. 301. AMENDMENT TO HOME OWNERS’ LOAN ACT OF 1933.
The Home Owners’ Loan Act of 1933 is amended to read as
follows:
“SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS. 12 USC 1461.
“This Act may be cited as the ‘Home Owners’ Loan Act’.
“TABLE OF CONTENTS

“Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
“Sec. 2. Definitions.
“Sec. : Howson: of the Office of Thrift Supervision.

“See. 5 ral savings associations.

“Sec. 6. Liquid asset requirements.

“Sec. 7. Applicability.

“Sec. 8. District associations.

“Sec. 9. Examination fees.

“Sec. 10. Regulation of companies.

“Sec. 11. Transactions with iates; extensions of credit to executive officers, di-
rectors, and principal shareholders.

“Sec. 12. Advertising.

“Sec. 13. Powers of examiners.

“Sec. 14. Separability provision.

“SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS. 12 USC 1462.

“For A of this Act—
.—The term ‘Director’ means the Director of the
Office of Thrift Supervision.

“(2) CorPORATION.—The term ‘Corporation’ means the Fed-
eral Deposit Insurance Corporation.

“(3) cE.—The term ‘Office’ means the Office of Thrift
Supervision.

(4) SAVINGS ASSOCIATION.—The term ‘savings association’
means a savings association, as defined in section 3 of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the deposits of which are in-
sured by the Corporation.

(5) ERAL SAVINGS ASSOCIATION.—The term ‘Federal sav-
ings association’ means a Federal savings association or a Fed-
eral savings bank chartered under section 5 of this Act.

“(6) NATIONAL BANK.—The term ‘national bank’ has the same

meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.

“(7) FEDERAL BANKING AGENCIES.—The term ‘Federal banking

. agencies’ means the Office of the oe of the Currency.
the Board of Governors of the Federal rve System, and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
103 STAT. 278 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

‘“(8) Srate.—The term ‘State’ has the same meaning as in
section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.

“(9) AFFILIATE.—The term ‘affiliate’ means any person that
controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, a
savings association, except as provided in section 10.

12 USC 1462a. “SEC. 3. DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION.

“(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFice.—There is established the Office of
Thrift Supervision, which shall be an office in the Department of the
Treasury.

“(b) ESTABLISHMENT OF PosITION OF DIRECTOR.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—There is —— the position of the
Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, who shall be the
head of the Office of Thrift Supervision and shall be subject to
the general oversight of the Secretary of the Treasury.

“(2) AUTHORITY TO PRESCRIBE REGULATIONS.—The Director
may prescribe such regulations and issue such orders as the
Director may determine to be necessary for carrying out this
Act and all other laws within the Director’s jurisdiction.

“(3) AUTONOMY OF DIRECTOR.—The Secretary of the Treasury
may not intervene in any matter or proceeding before the
Director unless otherwise provided by law.

“(c) APPOINTMENT; TERM.—

“(1) APPOINTMENT.—The Director shall be appointed by the
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,
from among individuals who are citizens of the United States.

“(2) TerM.—The Director shall be appointed for a term of 5
years.

“(3) Vacancy.—A vacancy in the position of Director which
occurs before the expiration of the term for which a Director
was appointed shall be filled in the manner established in
paragraph (1) and the Director appointed to fill such vacancy
shall be appointed only for the remainder of such term.

“(4) SERVICE AFTER END OF TERM.—An individual may serve as
Director after the expiration of the term for which appointed
until a successor Director has been appointed.

“(5) TRANSITIONAL PROVISION.—Notwithstanding paragraphs
(1) and (2), the Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board
on the date of enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, shall be the Director
until the date on which that individual’s term as Chairman of
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board would have expired.

‘“(d) PROHIBITION ON FINANCIAL InTEREsTS.—The Director shall
not have a direct or indirect financial interest in any insured
‘depository institution, as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act.

hig POWERS OF THE Director.—The Director shall have all powers
which—

“(1) were vested in the Federal Home Loan Bank Board (in
the Board’s capacity as such) or the Chairman of such Board on
the day before the date of the enactment of the Financial
er eae Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989;
an

“(2) were not—

“(A) transferred to the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration, the Federal Housing Finance Board, the Resolu-
tion Trust Corporation, or the Federal Home Loan Mort-
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 279

gage Corporation pursuant to any amendment made by
such Act; or

> eae under any provision of law repealed by
such Act.

“(f) ANNUAL Report RequireD.—The Director shall make an
annual report to the Congress. Such report shall include—

“(1) a description of any changes the Director has made or is
considering ing in the district offices of the Office, including
a description of the geographic allocation of the Office’s re-
sources and personnel used to carry out examination and super-
vision functions; and

“(2) a ered of actions taken to carry out section 308 of
the Financial itutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement
Act of 1989.

“(g) Srarr.—

“(1) APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.—The Director shall fix
the compensation and number of, and appoint and direct, all
employees of the Office of Thrift Supervision notwithstanding
section 301(f(1) of title 31, United States Code. Such compensa-
tion shall be paid without regard to the provisions of other laws
applicable to officers or employees of the United States.

‘(2) Rates or BASIC PAY.—Rates of basic pay for employees of
the Office may be set and adjusted by Director without
regard to the provisions of chapter 51 or subchapter III of
chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code.

“(3) ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION AND BENEFITs.—The Director
may provide additional compensation and benefits to employees
of the Office if the same type of compensation or benefits are
then being provided by any Federal ing agency or, if not
then being provided, could be provided by such an agency under
applicable provisions of law, rule, or regulation. In setting and
adjusting the total amount of compensation and benefits for
employees of the Office, the Director shall consult, and seek to
maintain comparability with, the Federal banking agencies.

“(4) DELEGATION AUTHORITY.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Director may—

“(j) designate who shall act as Di in the Direc-
tor’s absence; and

“(ii) delegate to any employee, representative, or
agent any power of the Director.

“(B) Limrrations.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (A\ii),
the Director shall not, directly or indirectly—

“(i) after October 10, 1989, delegate to any Federal
home loan bank or to any officer, director, or employee
of a Federal home loan bank, any power involving
examining, supervising, taking enforcement action
with respect to, or otherwise regulating any savings
association, savings and loan holding company, or other
person subject to regulation by the Di r; or

“(ii) delegate the Director’s authority to serve as a
member of the Corporation’s Board of Directors.

“(h) FunpiInG THRouGH ASSESSMENTS.—The compensation of the
Director and other employees of the Office and other expenses
thereof may be paid from assessments levied under this Act.

“(j) GAO Auprr.—The Director shall make available to the
Comptroller General of the United States all books and records
103 STAT. 280 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

necessary to audit all of the activities of the Office of Thrift Super-
vision.
12 USC 1463. “SEC. 4. SUPERVISION OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.

“(a) FEDERAL SAvinGs ASSOCIATIONS.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall provide for the examina-
tion, safe and sound operation, and regulation of savings
associations.

“(2) ReGuLations.—The Director may issue such regulations
as the Director determines to be appropriate to carry out the
responsibilities of the Director or the Office.

(3) SAFE AND SOUND HOUSING CREDIT TO BE ENCOURAGED.—
The Director shall exercise all powers granted to the Director
under this Act so as to encourage savings associations to provide
credit for housing safely and soundly.

“(b) ACCOUNTING AND DiscLosuRE.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall, by regulation, prescribe
uniform accounting and disclosure standards for savings
associations, to be used in determining savings associations’
compliance with all applicable regulations.

“(2) SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCOUNTING STANDARDS.—
Subject to section 5(t), the uniform accounting standards pre-
scribed under paragraph (1) shall—

“(A) incorporate generally accepted accounting principles
to the same degree that such principles are to deter-
mine compliance with regulations prescribed by the Fed-
eral banking agencies;

“(B) allow for no deviation from full compliance with
such standards as are in effect after December 31, 1993; and

“(C) prior to January 1, 1994, require full compliance by
savings associations with accounting standards in effect at
any time before such date not later t provided under the
schedule in section 563.23-3 of title 12, Code of Federal
Regulations (as in effect on May 1, 1989).

“(3) AUTHORITY TO PRESCRIBE MORE STRINGENT ACCOUNTING
STANDARDS.—The Director ary dd any time prescribe account-
ing standards more stringent t required under paragraph (2)
if the Director determines that the more stringent standards
are necessary to ensure the safe and sound operation of savings
associations.

“(c) SrRINGENCY oF STANDARDS.—All regulations and policies of
the Director governing the safe and sound operation of savings
associations, including regulations and pag governing asset
classification and aporaiene, shall be no less stringent than those
established by the Comptroller of the Currency for national banks.

“(d) INVESTMENT OF CERTAIN FuNDS IN ACCOUNTS OF SAVINGS
ASSOCIATIONS.—The savings accounts and share accounts of savings
associations insured by the Corporation shall be lawful investments
and may be accepted as security for all public funds of the United
States, fiduciary and trust funds under the authority or control of
the United States or any officer thereof, and for the funds of all
corporations organized under the laws of the United States (subject
to any regulatory authority otherwise applicable), regardless of any
limitation of law upon the investment of any such funds or upon the
scoeprance of security for the investment or deposit of any of such

unds.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 281

“(e) PARTICIPATION BY SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS IN LOTTERIES AND
RELATED ACTIVITIES.—
“(1) PARTICIPATION PROHIBITED.—No savings association
may—
“(A) deal in lottery tickets;
“(B) deal in bets used as a means or substitute for partici-
pation in a lottery;
; “(C) announce, advertise, or publicize the existence of any
ottery; or
“(D) announce, advertise, or publicize the existence or
identity of any participant or winner, as such, in a lottery.
“(2) Use OF FACILITIES PROHIBITED.—No savings association
may permit—
“(A) the use of any part of any of its own offices by any
person for any purpose forbidden to the institution under

paragraph (1); or

“BD direct access by the public from any of its own offices
to any premises used by any person for any purpose forbid-
den to the institution under paragraph (1).

“(3) DeriniTions.—For purposes of this subsection—
tiking daying een venetiing orcalake! oe
, buying, se , redeeming, or co A

“(B) Lorrery.—The term ‘lottery’ includes any arrange-
ment under which—

“(i) 3 or more persons (hereafter in this subparagraph
referred to as the ‘participants’) advance money or
credit to another in exchange for the possibility or
expectation that 1 or more but not all of the partici-
pants (hereafter in this paragraph referred to as the
winners’) will receive by reason of those participants’
advances more than the amounts those participants
have advanced; and

“(ii) the identity of the winners is determined by any
means which includes—

“(D a random selection;

“(II) a game, race, or contest; or

“(III) any record or tabulation of the result of 1
or more events in which any participant has no
interest except for the bearing that event has on
the possibility that the participant may become a

winner.

“(C) Lorrery TickeTt.—The term ‘lottery ticket’ includes
any right, privilege, or possibility (and any ticket, receipt,
record, or other evidence of any such right, privilege, or
pa of becoming a winner in a lottery.

“(4) EXCEPTION FOR STATE LOTTERIES.—Paragraphs (1) and (2)
shall not apply with respect to cag ec association accepting
funds from, or performing any lawful services for, any State
operating a lottery, or any officer or employee of such a State
who is charged with administering the lottery.

“(5) REGULATIONS.—The Director shall prescribe such regula-
tions as may be necessary to provide for enforcement of this
subsection and to prevent any evasion of any provision of this
subsection.

“(f) FEDERALLY RELATED MortGaGe Loan Disciosures.—A sav-
ings association may not make a federally related mortgage loan to
an agent, trustee, nominee, or other person acting in a fiduciary
103 STAT. 282 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

12 USC 1464.
Housing.

capacity without requiring that the identity of the person receiving
the beneficial interest of such loan shall at all times be revealed to
the savings association. At the request of the Director, the savings
association shall report to the Director the identity of such person
and the nature and amount of the loan.

“(g) PREEMPTION OF STaTE Usury Laws.—(1) Notwithstanding any
State law, a savings association may charge interest on any exten-
sion of credit at a rate of not more than 1 percent in excess of the
discount rate on 90-day commercial paper in effect at the Federal
Reserve bank in the Federal Reserve district in which such savings
association is located or at the rate allowed by the laws of the State
in which such savings association is located, whichever is greater.

“(2) If the rate prescribed in paragraph (1) exceeds the rate such
savings association would be permitted to charge in the absence of
this subsection, the receiving or ow aS greater rate of interest
than that prescribed by pereeren (1), when knowingly done, shall
be deemed a forfeiture of the entire interest which the extension of
credit carries with it, or which has been agreed to be paid thereon. If
such greater rate of interest has been paid, the person who paid it
may recover, in a civil action commenced in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction not later than 2 years after the date of such payment, an
amount equal to twice the amount of the interest paid from the
savings association taking or receiving such interest.

oe Form AND Maturity or Securities.—No savings association
8 —
(1) issue securities which antee a definite maturity
aoe with the specific approval of the Director, or
“(2) issue any securities the form of which has not been
approved by the Director.

“SEC, 5. FEDERAL SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.

“(a) IN GeNERAL.—In order to provide thrift institutions for the
deposit of funds and for the extension of credit for homes and other
goods and services, the Director is authorized, under such regula-
tions as the Director may prescribe—

“(1) to provide for the organization, incorporation, examina-
tion, operation, and regulation of associations to be known as
he savings associations (including Federal savings banks),
an

“(2) to issue charters therefor,
giving primary consideration of the best practices of thrift institu-
tions in the United States. The lending and investment powers
conferred by this section are intended to encourage such institutions
to provide credit for housing safely and soundly.

(b) Deposits AND RELATED PowERs.—
“(1) DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS.—
“(A) Subject to the terms of its charter and regulations of
the Director, a Federal savings association may—

“(i) raise funds through such deposit, s , or other
accounts, including demand deposit accounts (hereafter
in this section referred to as ‘accounts’); and

“(ii) issue passbooks, certificates, or other evidence of
accounts.

“(B) A Federal savings association may not—

“(i) pay interest on a demand account; or

“(ii) permit any overdraft (including an sieapem 5
overdraft) on behalf of an affiliate, or incur any suc
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 283

overdraft in such savings association’s account at a

Federal reserve bank or Federal home loan bank on

behalf of an affiliate.
All savings accounts and demand accounts shall have the
same priority upon liquidation. Holders of accounts and
obligors of a Federal savings association shall, to such
extent as may be provided by its charter or by regulations
of the Director, be members of the savings association, and
shall have such voting rights and such other rights as are
thereby provided.

“(C) A Federal savings association may require not less
than 14 days notice prior to payment of savings accounts if
the charter of the savings association or the regulations of
the Director so provide.

“(D) If a Federal savings association does not pay all
withdrawals in full (subject to the right of the association,
where applicable, to require notice), the payment of
withdrawals from accounts shall be subject to such rules
and procedures as may be prescribed by savings associa-
tion’s charter or by regulation of the Director. Except as
authorized in writing by the Director, any Federal savi
association that fails to make full payment of any with-
drawal when due shall be deemed to be in an unsafe or
unsound condition.

“(E) Accounts may be subject to check or to withdrawal
or transfer on negotiable or transferable or other order or
authorization to the Federal savings association, as the
Director may by regulation provide.

“(F) A Federal savings association may establish remote
service units for the purpose of coming ares or demand
accounts, debiting such accounts, iting payments on
loans, and the disposition of related financial transactions,
as provided in regulations prescribed by the Director.

“(2) LIABILITIES.—To such extent as the Director may
authorize in writing, a Federal savings association may borrow,
may give security, may be surety as defined by the Director and
may issue such notes, bonds, debentures, or other obligations, or
other securities, including capital stock.

“(3) LOANS FROM STATE HOUSING FINANCE AGENCIES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to regulation by the Director
but without regard to any other provision of this subsection,
any Federal savings association that is in compliance with
the capital standards in effect under subsection (t) may
borrow funds from a State mortgage finance agency of the
State in which the head office of such savings association is
situated to the same extent as State law authorizes a
savings association organized under the laws of such State
to borrow from the State mo finance agency.

“(B) INTEREST RATE.—A Federal savings association ma
not make any loan of funds borrowed under subparagrap
(A) at an interest rate which exceeds by more than 1%
percent per annum the interest rate paid to the State
mortgage finance agency on the obligations issued to obtain
the funds so borrowed.

“(4) Crepir Carps.—Subject to regulations of the Director, a
Federal savings association may issue credit cards. extend credit
108 STAT. 284

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

in connection therewith, and otherwise engage in or participate
in credit card operations.

“(5) MUTUAL CAPITAL CERTIFICATES.—In accordance with regu-
lations issued by the Director, mutual capital certificates may
be issued and sold directly to subscribers or through under-
writers. Such certificates may be included in calculating capital
for the pu of subsection (t) to the extent permitted by the
Director. The issuance of certificates under this paragraph does
not constitute a change of control or ownership under this Act
or any other law unless there is in fact a change in control or
reorganization. Regulations relating to the issuance and sale of
mutual capital certificates shall provide that such certificates—

“(A) are subordinate to all savings accounts, savings cer-
tificates, and debt obligations;

“(B) constitute a claim in liquidation on the general
reserves, surplus, and undivided profits of the Federal sav-
ings association remaining after the payment in full of all
savings accounts, savings certificates, and debt obligations;

“(C) are entitled to the payment of dividends; and

“(D) may have a fixed or variable dividend rate.

“(c) LOANS AND .—To the extent specified in regula-

tions of the Director, a Federal savings association may invest in,
sell, or otherwise deal in the following loans and other investments:

‘“(1) LOANS OR INVESTMENTS WITHOUT PERCENTAGE OF ASSETS
LIMITATION.—Without limitation as a percentage of assets, the
following are permitted:

“(A) AccOUNT LOANS.—Loans on the security of its sav-
ings accounts and loans specifically related to transaction
accounts.

“(B) RESIDENTIAL REAL PROPERTY LOANS.—Loans on the
security of liens upon residential real property.

“(C) UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT SECURITIES.—Invest-
ments in obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal
and interest by, the United States.

“(D) FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK AND FEDERAL NATIONAL
MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION SECURITIES.—Investments in the
stock or bonds of a Federal home loan bank or in the stock
of the Federal National Mortgage Association.

“(E) FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION IN-
STRUMENTS.—Investments in mortgages, obligations, or
other securities which are or have been sold by the Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation pursuant to section 305
- 306 of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation

ct.

“(F) OTHER GOVERNMENT SECURITIES.—Investments in
obligations, participations, securities, or other instruments
issued by, or fully teed as to principal and interest
by, the Federal National Mo Association, the Student
Loan Marketing Association, the Government National
Mortgage Association, or any agency of the United States.
A savings association may issue and sell securities which
are guaranteed pursuant to section 306(g) of the National
Housing Act.

“(G) 1Ts.—Investments in accounts of any insured
depository institution, as defined in section 3 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(H) State securities.—Investments in obligations issued
by any State or political subdivision thereof (including any
agency, corporation, or instrumentality of a State or politi-
cal subdivision). A Federal savings association may not
invest more than 10 percent of its capital in obligations of
any one issuer, exclusive of investments in general obliga-
tions of any issuer.

“(]) PURCHASE OF INSURED LOANS.—Purchase of loans se-
cured by liens on improved real estate which are insured or
guaranteed under the National Housing Act, the Service-
men’s Readjustment Act of 1944, or chapter 37 of title 38,
United States Code.

“(J) HoME IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME
LOANS.—Loans made to repair, equip, alter, or improve any
residential real property, and loans made for manufactured
home financing.

“(K) INSURED LOANS TO FINANCE THE PURCHASE OF FEE
SIMPLE.—Loans insured under section 240 of the National
Housing Act.

“(L) LoANS TO FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, BROKERS, AND
DEALERS.—Loans to—

“(i) financial institutions with respect to which the
United States or an agency or instrumentality thereof
has any function of examination or supervision, or

“(ii) any broker or dealer registered with the Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission,

which are secured by loans, obligations, or investments in
which the Federal savings association has the statutory
authority to invest directly.

“(M) LIQUIDITY INVESTMENTS.—Investments which, when
made, are of a type that may be used to satisfy any —-
requirement imposed by the Director pursuant to section 6.

(N) IN THE NATIONAL HOUSING PARTNERSHIP
CORPORATION, PARTNERSHIPS, AND JOINT VENTURES.—Invest-
ments in shares of stock issued by a ee authorized
to be created pursuant to title [IX of the Housing and Urban
Development Act of 1968, and investments in any partner-
ship, limited partnership, or joint venture formed pursuant
to section 907(a) or 907(c) of such Act.

“(O) CERTAIN HUD INSURED OR GUARANTEED INVEST-
MENTS.—Loans that are secured by Sp eal oe

a

ae insured under title X of the National Housing
, or
“(ii) teed under title IV of the Housing and

Urban Development Act of 1968, under part B of the
National Urban Policy and New Community Develop-
ment Act of 1970, or under section 802 of the Housing
and Community Development Act of 1974.
“(P) STATE HOUSING CORPORATION INVESTMENTS.—Obliga-
tions of and loans to any State housing corporation, if—
“(i) such obligations or loans are secured directly, or
indirectly through an agent or fiduciary, by a first lien
on improved real estate which is insured under the
provisions of the National Housing Act, and
“(ii) in the event of default, the holder of the obliga-
tions or loans has the right directly, or indirectly
through an agent or fiduciary, to cause to be subject to

103 STAT. 285

Real property.
103 STAT. 286

PUBLIC LAW 101-78—AUG. 9, 1989

the satisfaction of such obligations or loans the real
estate described in the first lien or the insurance pro-
ceeds under the National Housing Act.

“(Q) INVESTMENT COMPANIES.—A Federal savings associa-
tion may invest in, redeem, or hold shares or certificates
sroee by any open-end management investment company
which—

“(i) is registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission under the Investment Company Act of
1940, and

“(ii) the portfolio of which is restricted by such
management company’s investment policy (changeable
only if authorized by shareholder vote) solely to invest-
ments that a Federal savings association by law or
regulation may, without limitation as to percentage of
assets, invest in, sell, redeem, hold, or otherwise deal

in.
“(R) MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES.—Investments in secu-
rities that—
“(i) are offered and sold pursuant to section 4(5) of
the Securities Act of 1933; or
“(ii) are marke e related securities (as defined in
section 3(a)(41) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934),
subject to such regulations as the Director may prescribe,
including regulations prescribing minimum size of the issue
(at the time of initial distribution) or minimum aggregate
sales price, or both.

“(2) LOANS OR INVESTMENTS LIMITED TO A PERCENTAGE OF
ASSETS OR CAPITAL.—The following loans or investments are
permitted, but only to the extent specified:

“(A) COMMERCIAL AND OTHER LOANS.—Secured or un-
secured loans for commercial, corporate, business, or agri-
cultural purposes. The aggregate amount of loans under
this ph shall not exceed 10 percent of the assets of
the Federal savings association.

“(B) NONRESIDENTIAL REAL PROPERTY LOANS.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Loans on the security of liens upon
nonresidential real property. Except as provided in
clause (ii), the aggregate amount of such loans shall not
exceed 400 percent of the Federal savings association’s
capital, as determined under subsection (t).

‘(ii) Exception.—The Director may permit a savings
association to exceed the limitation set forth in clause
(i) if the Director determines that the increased author-
ity—

“) poses no significant risk to the safe and
sound operation of the association, and

“(ID is consistent with prudent operating prac-
tices.

“(iii) Monrrorinc.—If the Director permits any in-
creased authority pursuant to clause (ii), the Director
shall closely monitor the Federal savings association’s
condition and lending activities to ensure that the
savings association carries out all authority under this
paragraph in a safe and sound manner and complies
“hen this subparagraph and all relevant laws and regu-

ations
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 287

ss Ceraltie patted weopote oakitnn, vckdaien: peamntae
in e perso roperty, including, vehicles, manufac-
tured ccc sachinery, equipment, or furniture, for
rental or sale. Investments under this vey ee a may
not exceed 10 percent of the assets of the Federal savings
association.

“(D) CoNSUMER LOANS AND CERTAIN SECURITIES.—A Fed-
eral ——— association may make loans for personal,
family, or household purposes, including loans reasonably
incident to providing such credit, and m y invest in, sell, or
hold commercial paper and corporate debt securities, as
defined and approved by the Director. Loans and other
investments under this subparagraph may not exceed 30

rcent of the assets of the Federal savings association.

“(3) LOANS OR INVESTMENTS LIMITED TO 5 PERCENT OF ASSETS.—
The following loans or investments are permitted, but not to
exceed 5 percent of assets of a Federal savings association for
each sub ph:

“(A) EDUCATION LOANS.—Loans made for the payment of
educational expenses.

“(B) COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENTS.—Invest- Real property.
ments in real property and obligations secured by liens on
real property located within a phic area or neighbor-
hood receiving concentrated development assistance by a
local ae under title I of the Housing and Commu-
er 8 — = ba 1974. No investment under this

paragraph in suc property may exceed an aggre-
gate of 2 percent of the assets of the Federal savings
association.

“(C) NONCONFORMING LOANS.—Loans upon the security of Real property.
or respecting real property or interests therein used for
primarily residential or farm purposes that do not comply
with the limitations of this subsection.

“(D) CoNSTRUCTION LOANS WITHOUT sECURITY.—Loans—

“(i) the principal purpose of which is to provide
financing with respect to what is or is expected to
become primarily residential real estate; and

“(ii) with respect to which the association—

“(1 relies substantially on the borrower's general
credit standing and yjected future income for
repayment, without other security; or

‘dD relies on other assurances for repayment,
including a guarantee or similar obligation of a

party.
The aggregate amount of such investments shall not exceed
the greater of the Federal savings association’s capital or 5
rcent of its assets.
“(4) OTHER LOANS AND INVESTMENTS.—The following addi-
— loans and other investments to the extent authorized
ow:

“(A) BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CREDIT CORPORATIONS.—A
Federal savings association that is in compliance with the
capital standards prescribed under subsection (t) may invest
in, lend to, or to commit itself to lend to, any business
development credit corporation incorporated in the State in
which the home office of the association is located in the
same manner and to the same extent as savings associa-
103 STAT. 288

Housing.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

tions chartered by such State are authorized. The aggregate
amount of such investments, loans, and commitments of
es Federal savings association shall not exceed one-

of rcent of the association’s total outstanding loans
or $250,000, whichever is less.

“(B) SERVICE CORPORATIONS.—Investments in the capital
stock, obligations, or other securities of any corporation
organized under the laws of the State in which the Federal
savings association’s home office is located, if such corpora-
tion’s entire capital stock is available for purchase only by
a tions of such State and by Federal associa-
tions having their home offices in such State. No Federal
Savings association may make any investment under this
subparagraph if the association’s aggregate outstanding
investment under this subpar ve would exceed 3 per-
cent of the association’s assets. Not less than one-half of the
investment permitted under this subparagraph which ex-

1 percent of the association’s assets s be used
primarily for community, inner-city, and community devel-
opment purposes.

“(C) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE INVESTMENTS.—Investments in
housing project loans having the benefit of any guaranty
under section 221 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or
loans having the benefit of any guarantee under section 224
of such Act, or any commitment or agreement with respect
to such loans made pursuant to either of such sections and
in the share capital and capital reserve of the Inter-Amer-
ican Savings and Loan . This authority extends to the
acquisition, holding, and disposition of loans guaranteed
under section 221 or 222 of such Act. Investments under
this subparagraph shall not exceed 1 percent of the Federal
savings association’s assets.

“(D) SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES.—A Federal
savings association may invest in stock, obligations, or
other securities of any small business investment company
formed pursuant to section 301(d) of the Small Business
Investment Act of 1958 for the = of aiding members
of a Federal home loan bank. A i a savings association
may not make any investment under this subparagraph if
its te outstanding investment under this subpara-
graph would exceed 1 percent of the assets of such savings
association.

“(5) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this subsection—

“(A) RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.—The terms ‘residential real
roperty’ or ‘residential real estate’ mean leaseholds,
omes (including condominiums and cooperatives, except

that in connection with loans on individual sp
units, such loans shall be adequately secured as defined by
the Director) and, combinations of homes or dwelling units
and business property, involving only minor or incidental
business use, or property to be improved by construction of
such structures.

“(B) Loans.—The term ‘loans’ includes obligations and
extensions or advances of credit; and any reference to a
loan or investment includes an interest in such a loan or
investment.

“(d) REGULATORY AUTHORITY.—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 289

“(1) IN GENERAL.—

“(A) ENFORCEMENT.—The Director shall have power to
enforce this section, section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act, and regulations prescribed hereunder. In enforc-
ing any provision of this section, regulations prescribed
under this section, or any other law or regulation, or in any
other action, suit, or proceeding to which the Director is a
party or in which the Director is interested, and in the
administration of conservatorships and receiverships, the
Director may act in the Director’s own name and through
the Director's own attorneys. Except as otherwise provided, Courts, U.S.
the Director shall be subject to suit (other than suits on
claims for money damages) by any Federal savings associa-
tion or director or officer thereof with respect to any matter
under this section or any other applicable law, or regula-
tion thereunder, in the United States district court for the
judicial district in which the savings association’s home
office is located, or in the United States District Court for
the District of Columbia, and the Director may be served
with process in the manner prescribed by the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure.

“(B) ANCILLARY PROVISIONS.—(i) In making examinations
of savings associations, examiners appointed by the Direc-
tor s have power to make such examinations of the
affairs of all affiliates of such savings associations as shall
be necessary to disclose fully the relations between such
savings associations and their affiliates and the effect of
such relations upon such savi associations. For purposes
of this subsection, the term ‘ iate’ has the same meaning
as in section 2(b) of the Banking Act of 1933, except that the
term ‘member bank’ in section 2(b) shall be deemed to refer
to a savings association.

“Gi) In the course of any examination of any savings
association, upon request by the Director, prompt and com-
plete access shall be given to all savings association officers,
directors, employees, and agents, and to all relevant books,
records, or documents of any type.

“(iii) Upon request made in the course of supervision or
oversight of any savings association, for the purpose of
acting on any application or determining the condition of
any savings association, including whether operations are
being conducted safely, soundly, or in compliance with
charters, laws, regulations, directives, written agreements,
or conditions imposed in writing in connection with the
granting of an application or other request, the Director
shall be given prompt and complete access to all savings
association officers, directo rs, employees, and agents, and to
all relevant books, records, or documents of any type.

“(iv) If prompt and complete access upon request is not Courts, U.S.
given as required in this s ion, the Directo r may apply
to the United States district court for the judicial district
(or the United States court in any territory) in which the
principal office of the institution is located, or in which the
po denying such access resides or carries on business,

or = co requiring that such information be promptly
provided.
103 STAT. 290

Courts, U.S.

Courts, U.S.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(v) In connection with examinations of savings associa-
tions and affiliates thereof, the Director may—

“(1) administer oaths and affirmations and examine
and to take and preserve testimony under oath as to
any matter in respect of the affairs or ownership of any
such savings association or affiliate, and

*(II) issue subpenas and, for the enforcement thereof,
apply to the United States district court for the judicial
district (or the United States court in any territory) in
which the — office of the savi association or
affiliate is located, or in which the witness resides or
carries on business.

Such courts shall have jurisdiction and power to order and
require compliance with any such subpena.

(vi) In any proceeding under this section, the Director
ay administer oaths and affirmations, take depositions,
and issue subpenas. The Director may prescribe regulations
with respect to any such proceedings. The attendance of
witnesses and the production of documents provided for in
this subsection may be required from any place in any State
or in any territory at any designated place where such
proceeding is being conducted.

“(vii) Any to a proceeding under this section may
apply to the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia, or the United States district court for the judicial
district (or the United States court in any territory) in
which such proceeding is being conducted, or where the
witness resides or carries on business, for enforcement of
any subpena issued pursuant to this subsection or section
10¢c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and such courts
shall have jurisdiction and power to order and require
compliance therewith. Witnesses subpenaed under this sec-
tion shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid
witnesses in the district courts of the United States. All
expenses of the Director in connection with this section
shall be considered as nonadministrative expenses. Any
court Eng eee of any proceeding instituted under
this section by a savings association, or a director or officer
thereof, may allow to any such party reasonable expenses
and attorneys’ fees. Such expenses and fees shall be paid by
the savings association.

*(2) CONSERVATORSHIPS AND RECEIVERSHIPS.—

“(A) GROUNDS FOR APPOINTMENT FOR FEDERAL SAVINGS
ASSOCIATIONS.—A conservator or receiver may be appointed
for a Federal savings association if one or more of the
following conditions exist:

“(i) insolvency in that the assets of the association
are less than its obligations to its creditors and others,
medi) substantial distipation of d

““ii) su ial dissipation of assets or earnings due
to any violation or violations of law or regulations, or to
any unsafe or unsound practice or practices;

‘iii) an unsafe or unsound condition to transact
business, including having substantially insufficient
capital or otherwise;

‘iv) willful violation of a cease-and-desist order
which has become final;
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(v) concealment of books, papers, records, or assets
of the savings association or refusal to submit books,
papers, records, or affairs of the association for inspec-
tion to any examiner or to any lawful agent of the

r;

“(vi) the association is not likely to be able to meet
the demands of its depositors or pay its obligations in
the normal course of business;

“(viiXD the association has incurred or is ape to
incur losses that will deplete all or substantially all of
its capital, and (II) there is no reasonable prospect for
the replenishment of the capital of the association
without Federal assistance; or

“(viii) there is a violation or violations of laws or
regulations, or an unsafe or unsound practice or condi-
tion which is likely to cause insolvency or substantial
dissipation of assets or earnings, or is likely to weaken
the condition of the association or otherwise seriously
ig gone the interests of its depositors.

“(B) ADDITIONAL GROUNDS FOR APPOINTMENT OF FEDERAL
ASSOCIATIONS.—In addition to the foregoing provisions, the
Director may, without any requirement of notice, hearing,
or other action, appoint a conservator or receiver for a
Federal savings association if—

“(i) the association, by resolution of its board of
directors or of its members, consents to such appoint-
ment, or

“(ii) the association is removed from membership in
any Federal home loan bank, or its status as an institu-
tion the accounts of which are insured by the Corpora-
tion is terminated.

‘(C) GROUNDS FOR APPOINTMENT FOR STATE ASSOCIA-
TIONS.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
Director shall have power and jurisdiction to appoint a
conservator or receiver for an insured State savings associa-
tion, if the Director determines that any of the following
grounds for the appointment of a conservator or receiver
exists:

“(i) ssmivoney in that the assets of the savings
association are less than its obligations to its creditors

and others, including its members;

“(ii) substantial dissipation of assets or earnings due
to any violation or violations of law or regulations, or to
any unsafe or unsound practice or practices;

iii) an unsafe or unsound condition to transact
business, including having substantially insufficient
capital or otherwise;

‘(iv) the association is not likely to be able to meet
the demands of its depositors or pay its obligations in
the normal course of business;

“(vXI) the savings association has incurred or is likel
to incur losses that will deplete all or substantially all
of its capital, and (II) there is no reasonable promot
for the savings association’s capital to be replenished
without Federal assistance; or

“(vi) there is a violation or violations of laws or
regulations, or an unsafe or unsound practice or condi-

103 STAT. 291
103 STAT. 292

Courts, U.S.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

tion which is likely to cause insolvency or substantial
dissipation of assets or earnings, or is likely to weaken
the condition of the association or otherwise seriously
prejudice the interests of its depositors.

“(D) APPROVAL OF STATE OFFICIAL.—(i) The authority con-
ferred by subparagraph (C) shall not be exercised without
the written approval of the State official having jurisdiction
over the insured State savings association that one or more
of the grounds specified for such exercise exist.

“(ii) If such approval has not been received within 30 days
of receipt of notice to the State that the Director has
determined such grounds exist, and the Director has re-
sponded in writing to the State’s written reasons, if any, for
withholding approval, then the Director may proceed with-
out State approval.

“(E) PowER OF APPOINTMENT; JUDICIAL REVIEW.—The
Director shall have exclusive power and jurisdiction to
appoint a conservator or receiver for a Federal savings
association. If, in the opinion of the Director, a ground for
the appointment of a conservator or receiver for a savings
association exists, the Director is authorized to appoint ex
parte and without notice a conservator or receiver for the
savings association. In the event of such appointment, the
association may, within 30 days thereafter, bring an action
in the United States district court for the judicial district in
which the home office of such association is located, or in
the United States District Court for the District of Colum-
bia, for an order requiring the Director to remove such
conservator or receiver, and the court shall upon the merits
dismiss such action or direct the Director to remove such
conservator or receiver. Upon the commencement of such
an action, the court having jurisdiction of any other action
or proceeding authorized under this subsection to which the
association is a party shall stay such action or proceeding
during the pendency of the action for removal of the con-
servator or receiver.

“(F) REPLACEMENT.—The Director may, without any prior
notice, hearing, or other action, replace a conservator with
another conservator or with a receiver, but such replace-
ment shall not affect any right which the association may
have to obtain judicial review of the original appointment,
except that any removal under this subparagraph shall be
removal of the conservator or receiver in office at the time
of such removal.

“(G) Court ACTION:—Except as otherwise provided in this
subsection, no court may take any action for or toward the
removal of any conservator or receiver or, except at the
request of the Di r, to restrain or affect the exercise of
powers or functions of a conservator or receiver.

“(H) Powers.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—A conservator shall have all the
powers of the members, the stockholders, the directors,
and the officers of the association and shall be au-
thorized to operate the association in its own name or
to conserve its assets in the manner and to the extent
authorized by the Director.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 293

“(ii) FDIC oR RTC AS CONSERVATOR OR RECEIVER.—
Except as provided in section 21A of the Federal Home
Loan Bank Act, the Director, at the Director’s discre-
tion, may appoint the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation or the Resolution Trust Corporation, as
ee riate, as conservator for a savings association.

e Di r shall appoint only the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation or the lution Trust Cor-
poration, as appropriate, as receiver for a savings
association for the purpose of liquidation or winding up
the affairs of such sa association. The conservator
or receiver so appointed shall, as such, have power to
buy at its own sale. The Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, as such conservator or receiver, shall have
all the powers of a conservator or receiver, as appro-
priate, ted under the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act, and (when not inconsistent therewith) any other
rights, powers, and privileges possessed by conservators
or receivers, as appropriate, of savings associations
under this Act and any other provisions of law.

“(I) DiscLOSURE REQUIREMENT FOR THOSE ACTING ON
BEHALF OF CONSERVATOR.—A conservator shall require that
any independent contractor, consultant, or counsel em-
ployed by the conservator in connection with the
conservatorship of a savings association pursuant to this
section shall fully disclose to all parties with which such
contractor, consultant, or counsel is negotiating, any limita-
tion on the authority of such contractor, consultant, or
counsel to make | y binding representations on behalf
of the conservator.

(3) REGULATIONS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Director may prescribe regula-
tions for the reorganization, consolidation, liquidation, and
dissolution of savings associations, for the merger of in-

savings associations with insured savings associa-

tions, for savings associations in conservatorship and
receivership, and for the conduct of conservatorships and
receiverships. The Director may, cd tion or other-
wise, provide for the exercise of functions by members,
stockholders, directors, or officers of a savings association
during conservatorship and receivership.

“(B) FDIC or RTC AS CONSERVATOR OR RECEIVER.—In any
case where the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or
the Resolution Trust Corporation is the conservator or
receiver, any regulations prescribed by the Director shall be

consistent with any tions prescribed by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation pursuant to the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act.

“(4) REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH DEMAND.—Whenever a Law enforce-
conservator or receiver ——_ by the Director demands ment and crime.
possession of the property, business, and assets of any savings
association, or of any part thereof, the refusal by any director,
officer, employee, or agent of such association to comply with
the demand shall be punishable by a fine of not more than
$5,000 or imprisonment for not more than one year, or both.

“(5) Derinitions.—As used in this subsection, the term ‘sav-
ings association’ includes any savings association or former

29-194 O—91—Part I——-11 : QL 3
103 STAT. 294

Regulations.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

savings association that retains deposits insured by the Corpora-
tion, notwithstanding termination of its status as an institution
insured by the Corporation.

“(6) COMPLIANCE WITH MONETARY TRANSACTION RECORD-
KEEPING AND REPORT REQUIREMENTS.—

“(A) CoMPLIANCE PROCEDURES REQUIRED.—The Director
shall | ig regulations requiring savings associations to
establish and maintain procedures reasonably designed to
assure and monitor the compliance of such associations
with the requirements of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title
31, United States Code.

“(B) EXAMINATIONS OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS TO INCLUDE
REVIEW OF COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES.—

“Gj) IN GENERAL.—Each examination of a savings
association by the Director shall include a review of the
procedures required to be established and maintained
under subparagraph (A).

“(ii) EXAM REPORT REQUIREMENT.—The report of
examination shall describe any problem with the proce-
dures maintained by the association.

“(C) ORDER TO COMPLY WITH REQUIREMENTS.—If the Direc-
tor determines that a savings association—

“(j) has failed to establish and maintain the proce-
dures described in subparagraph (A); or

“(ii) has failed to correct any problem with the proce-
dures maintained by such association which was pre-
viously reported to the association by the Director,

the Director shall issue an order under section 8 of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act requiring such association to
cease and desist from its violation of this paragraph or
regulations prescribed under this paragraph.
Ries CHARACTER AND RESPONSIBILITY.—A charter may be granted
only—
“(1) to persons of good character and responsibility,
“(2) if in the judgment of the Director a necessity exists for
such an institution in the community to be served,
(8) if there is a reasonable probability of its usefulness and
success, and
“(4) if the association can be established without undue injury
to properly conducted existing local thrift and home financing
institutions.
“(f) FeEpERAL Home Loan BANK MEMBERSHIP.—Each Federal sav-
a association, upon receiving its charter, shall become automati-
y a member of the Federal home loan bank of the district in
which it is located, or if convenience requires and the Director
approves, shall become a member of a Federal home loan bank of an
adjoining district. Such associations shall qualify for such member-
ship in the manner provided in the Federal Home Loan Bank Act
with respect to other members.
“(g) PREFERRED SHARES.—[Repealed. |
“(h) DiscrimINATORY STATE AND Loca, TAXATION PROHIBITED.—
No State, county, municipal, or local taxing authority may impose
any tax on Federal savings associations or their franchise, capital,
reserves, surplus, loans, or income greater than that imposed b
such authority on other similar local mutual or cooperative thrift
and home financing institutions.
“(j) CONVERSIONS.—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 295

(1) IN GENERAL.—Any savings association which is, or is eli-
gible to become, a member of a Federal home loan bank may
convert into a Federal savings association (and in so doing may
change directly from the mutual form to the stock form, or from
the stock form to the mutual form). Such conversion shall be Regulations.
subject to such tions as the Director shall prescribe.
Thereafter such Federal savings association shall be entitled to
all the benefits of this section and shall be subject to examina-
tion and tion to the same extent as other associations
incorporated pursuant to this Act.

“(2) AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR.—{A) No savings association ma,
convert from the mutual to the stock form, or from the stoc
form to the mutual form, except in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Director.

‘“(B) Any aggrieved person may obtain review of a final action
of the Director which approves or ore a plan of conver-
sion pursuant to this subsection only complying with the
provisions of section 10(j) of this Act within the time limit and
in the manner therein prescribed, which provisions shall apply
in all respects as if such final action were an order the review of
which is therein provided for, except that such time limit shall
commence upon publication of notice of such final action in the
Federal Register or upon the giving of such general notice of
such final action as is required by or approved under regula-
a gos sec aia whichever is later. clint

" y Federal savings association may c its designa-
tion from a Federal savings association to a Federal savings

or the reverse.

“(3) CONVERSION TO STATE ASSOCIATION.—({A) Any Federal sav-
ings association may convert itself into a savings association or
savings bank organized pursuant to the laws of the State in
eon aster principal office of such Federal savings association is

oca’ —

“(i) the State permits the conversion of any savings
association or savings bank of such State into a Federal
savings association;

“(ii) such conversion of a Federal savings association into
such a State savings association is determined—

“(I) upon the vote in favor of such conversion cast in
person or by proxy at a special meeting of members or
stockholders called to consider such action, ified by
the law of the State in which the home office of the
Federal savings association is located, as required by
such law for a State-chartered institution to convert
itself into a Federal savings association, but in no event
upon a vote of less than 51 percent of all the votes cast
at such meeting, and

“(ID upon compliance with other requirements recip-
rocally equivalent to the requirements of such State
law for the conversion of a State-chartered institution
into a Federal savings association;

““(iii) notice of the meeting to vote on conversion shall be

iven as herein provided and no other notice thereof shall
necessary; the notice shall — state that such
meeting is called to vote thereon, as well as the time and
place thereof; and such notice shall be mailed, pote
prepaid, at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to
103 STAT. 296 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

Regulations.

date of the meeting, to the Director and to each member or
stockholder of record of the Federal savings association at
the member’s or stockholder’s last address as shown on the
books of the Federal savings association;

“(iv) when a mutual savings association is dissolved after
conversion, the members or shareholders of the savings
association will share on a mutual basis in the assets of the
association in exact proportion to their relative share or
account credits;

“(v) when a stock savings association is dissolved after
conversion, the stockholders will share on an equitable
basis in the assets of the association; and

“(vi) such conversion shall be effective upon the date that
all the provisions of this Act shall have been fully complied
with and upon the issuance of a new charter by the State
wherein the savings association is located.

“(B\i) The act of conversion constitutes consent ee institu-
tion to be bound by all the requirements that the Director may
im under this Act.

“(ii) The savings association shall upon conversion and there-
after be authorized to issue securities in any form currently
approved at the time of issue by the Director for issuance by
similar savings associations in such State.

“(iii) If the insurance of accounts is terminated in connection
with such conversion, the notice and other action shall be taken
as provided by law and regulations for the termination of
insurance of accounts.

“(4) SAVINGS BANK ACTiIvities.—(A) To the extent authorized
by the Director, but subject to section 18(m)(3) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act—

“(i) any Federal savings bank chartered as such prior to
October 15, 1982, may continue to make any investment or
engage in any activity not otherwise authorized under this
section, to the degree it was permitted to do so as a Federal
savings bank wee to October 15, 1982; and

“(ii) any Federal savings bank in existence on the date of
enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989 and formerly organized as a
mutual savings bank under State law may continue to make
any investment or engage in any activity not otherwise
authorized under this section, to degree it was author-
ized to do so as a mutual savings bank under State law. _

“(B) The authority conferred by this paragraph may be uti-
lized by any Federal savi association that acquires, b
merger or consolidation, a Federal savings bank enjoying grand-
father rights hereunder.

“(j) SUBSCRIPTION FOR SHARES.—[{Repealed.]

“(k) rey ti OF haa yt Money.—When designated on at
purpose by the Secretary of the Treasury, a savings association the
deposits of which are insured by the Corporation shall be a deposi-
tory of public money and may be employed as fiscal — of the
Government under such resiicheie as may be prescri by the

and shall perform all such reasonable duties as fiscal
agent of the Government as may be required of it. A savings
association the deposits of which are insured by the Corporation
may act as agent for any other instrumentality of the United States
when designated for that purpose by such instrumentality, includ-
ing services in connection with the collection of taxes and other
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 297

obligations owed the United States, and the Secretary of the Treas-
ury may deposit public money in any such savings association, and
shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out
the purposes of this subsection.

“()) RETIREMENT Accounts.—A Federal savings association is au-
thorized to act as trustee of any trust created or organized in the
United States and eo, part of a stock bonus, pension, or profit-
sharing plan which qualifies or qualified for specific tax treatment
under section 401(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and to act
as trustee or custodian of an individual retirement account within
the meaning of section 408 of such Code if the funds of such trust or
account are invested only in savi accounts or deposits in such
Federal savings association or in obligations or securities issued by
such Federal oe association. All funds held in such fiduciary Records.
capacity by any Federal savings association may be commingled for
appropriate purposes of investment, but individual records shall be
kept by the fiduciary for each participant and shall show in proper
detail all transactions engaged in under this paragraph.

“(m) BRANCHING.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.— District of

“(A) No savings association incorporated under the laws Columbia.
of the District of Columbia or organized in the District or
doing business in the District shall establish any branch or
move its principal office or any branch without the Direc-
tor’s prior written approval.

“(B) No savings association shall establish any branch in
the District of Columbia or move its principal office or any
branch in the District without the Director’s prior written
approval.

“(2) Derinit1ion.—For p of this subsection the term
‘branch’ means any office, ae of business, or facility, other
than the principal office as defined by the Director, of a savings
association at which accounts are opened or payments are
received or withdrawals are made, or any other office, place of
business, or facility of a savings association defined by the
Director as a branch within the meaning of such sentence.

“(n) Trusts.—

“(1) Permits.—The Director may grant by special permit to a
Federal savings association applying therefor the right to act as
trustee, executor, administrator, guardian, or in any other fidu-
ciary capacity in which State banks, trust companies, or other
corporations which compete with Federal savings associations
are permitted to act under the laws of the State in which the
Federal savings association is located. Subject to the regulations Securities.
of the Director, service corporations may invest in State or
federally chartered corporations which are located in the State
in which the home office of the Federal savings association is
located and which are engaged in trust activities.

“(2) SEGREGATION OF ASSETS.—A Federal savings association Records.
exercising any or all of the powers enumerated in this section
shall segregate all assets held in any fiduciary capacity from the
proces! assets of the association and shall keep a separate set of

ks and records showing in proper detail all transactions
engaged in under this subsection. The State banking authority
involved may have access to reports of examination made by the
Director insofar as such reports relate to the trust department
of such association but nothing in this subsection shall be
103 STAT. 298

Law
enforcement
and crime.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

construed as authorizing such State banking authority to exam-
ine the books, records, and assets of such associations.

“(3) Prontsitions.—No Federal savings association shall re-
ceive in its trust department a an of current funds subject to
check or the deposit of checks, drafts, bills of exchange, or other
items for collection or exchange purposes. Funds deposited or
held in trust by the association awaiting investment shall be
carried in a separate account and shall not be used by the
association in the conduct of its business unless it shall first set
aside in the trust department United States bonds or other
securities approved by the Director.

“(4) SEPARATE LIEN.—In the event of the failure of a Federal
savings association, the owners of the funds held in trust for
investment shall have a lien on the bonds or other securities so
set apart in addition to their claim against the estate of the
association.

“(5) Deposrrs.— Whenever the laws of a State require corpora-
tions acting in a fiduciary capacity to deposit securities with the
State authorities for the protection of private or court trusts,
Federal savings associations so acting shall be required to make
similar deposits. Securities so deposited shall be held for the
‘aiig ee of private or court trusts, as provided by the State
aw. Federal savings associations in such cases shall not be
required to execute the bond usually required of individuals if
State corporations under similar circumstances are exempt
from this requirement. Federal savings associations shall have
power to execute such bond when so required by the laws of the

tate involved.

“(6) OATHS AND AFFIDAVITS.—In any case in which the laws of
a State require that a corporation acting as trustee, executor,

inistrator, or in any spent specified in this section, shall
take an oath or make an affidavit, the president, vice president,
cashier, or trust officer of such association may take the nec-
essary oath or execute the necessary affidavit.

“(7) CERTAIN LOANS PROHIBITED.—It shall be unlawful for any
Federal savi association to lend any officer, director, or
employee any funds held in trust under the powers conferred by
this section. Any officer, director, or employee making such
loan, or to whom such loan is made, may be fined not more than
$50,000 or twice the amount of that person’s gain from the loan,
whichever is deers or may be imprisoned not more than 5

years, or may be both fined and imprisoned, in the discretion of
the court.

“(8) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.—In reviewing applications for
permission to exercise the powers enumerated in this section,
the Director may consider—

“(A) the amount of capital of the applying Federal sav-
ings association,

“(B) whether or not such capital is sufficient under the
circumstances of the case,

“(C) the needs of the community to be served, and

“(D) any other facts and circumstances that seem to it

roper.
The Directot may grant or refuse the application accordingly,

except that no permit shall be issued to any association having
capital less than the capital required by State law of State
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 299

banks, trust companies, and corporations exercising such
powers.

“(9) SURRENDER OF CHARTER.—(A) Any Federal savings
association may surrender its right to exercise the powers
granted under this subsection, and have returned to it any
securities which it may have deposited with the State authori-
ties, by filing with the Directo r a certified copy of a resolution of
its cone of directors indicating its intention to surrender its

ight.
eB) Upon receipt of such resolution, the Director, if satisfied
that such Federal savings association has been relieved in
accordance with State law of all duties as trustee, executor,
administrator, guardian or other fiduciary, may in the Direc-
tor’s discretion, issue to such association a certificate that such
association is no longer authorized to exercise the powers
granted by this subsection.

“(C) ie the issuance of such a certificate by the Director,
such Federal savings association (i) shall no longer be subject to
the provisions of this section or the regulations of the Director

e pursuant thereto, (ii) shall be entitled to have returned to
it any securities which it may have deposited with State
authorities, and (iii) shall not exercise thereafter any of the
powers granted by this section without first applying for and
obtaining a new permit to exercise such powers pursuant to the
provisions of this section.

“(D) The Director may prescribe lations necessary to
enforce compliance with the provisions of this subsection.

“(10) Revocation.—(A) In addition to the authority conferred
by other law, if, in the opinion of the Director, a Federal savings
association is unlawfully or unsoundly exercising, or has unlaw-
fully or unsoundly exercised, or has failed for a period of 5
consecutive years to exercise, the powers granted by this subsec-
tion or otherwise fails or has failed to comply with the require-
ments of this subsection, the Director may issue and serve upon
the association a notice of intent to revoke the authority of the
association to exercise the powers granted by this subsection.
The notice shall contain a statement of the facts constituting
the alleged unlawful or unsound exercise of powers, or failure to
exercise powers, or failure to comply, and shall fix a time and
place at which a hearing will be held to determine whether an
order revoking authority to exercise such powers should issue
against the association.

“(B) Such hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of subsection (dX1)\B), and subject to judicial review
as therein provided, and shall be fixed for a date not earlier
than 30 days and not later than 60 days after service of such
notice unless the Director sets an earlier or later date at the
request of any Federal savings association so served.

(C) Unless the Federal savings association so served shall
aprons at the neering by a duly authorized representative, it
8. be deemed to have consented to the issuance of the
revocation order. In the event of such consent, or if upon the
record made at any such hearing, the Director shall find that
os da tion specified in the notice of charges has been estab-

ed, the Director may issue and serve upon the association an
order prohibiting it from accepting any new or additional trust
accounts and revoking authority to exercise any and all powers
103 STAT. 300 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

granted by this subsection, except that such order shall permit
the association to continue to service all previously accepted
— accounts pending their expeditious divestiture or termi-
nation.

“(D) A revocation order shall become effective not earlier
than the expiration of 30 days after service of such order upon
the association so served (except in the case of a revocation
order issued upon consent, which shall become effective at the
time specified therein), and shall remain effective and enforce-
able, except to such extent as it is stayed, modified, terminated,
or set aside by action of the Director or a reviewing court.

“(o) CONVERSION OF STtaTE Savincs Banxs.—(1) Subject to the
provisions of this subsection and under regulations of the Director,
the Director may authorize the conversion of a State-chartered
savings bank that is a Bank Insurance Fund member into a Federal
savings bank, if such conversion is not in contravention of State law,
and provide for the organization, incorporation, operation, examina-
tion, and regulation of such institution.

“(2(A) Any Federal sip A bank chartered pursuant to this
subsection shall continue to a Bank Insurance Fund member
until such time as it changes its status to a Savings Association
Insurance Fund member.

“(B) The Director shall notify the Corporation of any application
under this Act for conversion to a Federal charter by an institution
insured by the Corporation, shall consult with the Corporation
before disposing of the application, and shall notify the Corporation
of the Director’s determination with respect to such application.

“(C) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the Corpora-
tion determines that conversion into a Federal stock savings bank or
the chartering of a Federal stock savings bank is necessary to
prevent the default of a savings bank it insures or to reopen a
savings bank in default that it insured, or if the Corporation deter-
mines, with the concurrence of the Director, that severe financial
conditions exist that threaten the stability of a savings bank insured
by the Corporation and that such a conversion or charter is likely to
improve the financial condition of such savings bank, the Corpora-
tion shall provide the Director with a certificate of such determina-
tion, the reasons therefor in conformance with the requirements of
this Act, and the bank shall be converted or chartered by the
Director, pursuant to the regulations thereof, from the time the
Corporation issues the certificate.

“(D) A bank may be converted under subparagraph (C) only if the
board of trustees of the bank—

“(i) has specified in writing that the bank is in danger of
closing or is closed, or that severe financial conditions exist that
threaten the stability of the bank and a conversion is likely to

improve the financial condition of the bank; and

“(ii) has requested in writing that the Corporation use the

authority of sh eg (C).

“(EXi) Before making a determination under subperegrers (D),
the Corporation shall consult the State bank supervisor of the State
in which the bank in danger of closing is chartered. The State bank
supervisor shall be given a reasonable opportunity, and in no event
less Se 48 hours, to object to the use of the provisions of subpara-
grap ;

“(ii) If the State supervisor objects during such period, the Cor-
poration may use the authority of subparagraph (D) only by an
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 301

affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Board of Directors. The
Board of Directors shall provide the State supervisor, as soon as
practicable, with a written certification of its determination.

“(3) A Federal savings bank chartered under this subsection shall
have the same authority with respect to investments, operations,
and activities, and shall be subject to the same restrictions, includ-
ing those applicable to branching and discrimination, as would
apply to it if it were chartered as a Federal savings bank under any
other provision of this Act.

“(p) Conversions.—(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, and consistent with the purposes of this Act, the Director may
authorize (or in the case of a Federal savings association, require)
the conversion of any mutual savings association or Federal mutual
savings bank that is insured by the Corporation into a Federal stock
savings association or Federal stock savings bank, or charter a
Federal stock savings association or Federal stock savings bank to
acquire the assets of, or merge with such a mutual institution under
the regulations of the Director.

“(2) Authorizations under this subsection may be made only—

“(A) if the Director has determined that severe financial
conditions exist which threaten the stability of an association
and that such authorization is likely to improve the financial
condition of the association,

“(B) when the Corporation has contracted to provide assist-
ance to such association under section 13 of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act, or

“(C) to assist an institution in receivership.

“(3) A Federal savings bank chartered under this subsection shall Securities.
have the same authority with respect to investments, operations and
activities, and shall be subject to the same restrictions, including
those applicable to branching and discrimination, as would apply to
it if it were chartered as a Federal savings bank under any other
provision of this Act, and may engage in any investment, activity, or
operation that the institution it acquired was engaged in if that
institution was a Federal savings bank, or would have been au-
oe to engage in had that institution converted to a Federal
c r.

“(q) TynnG ARRANGEMENTS.—(1) A savings association may not in
any manner extend credit, lease, or sell property of any kind, or
furnish any service, or fix or vary the consideration for any of the
foregoing, on the condition or requirement—

“(A) that the customer 1 obtain additional credit, prop-
erty, or service from such savings association, or from any
service corporation or affiliate of such association, other than a
loan, discount, deposit, or trust service;

“(B) that the customer provide additional credit, property, or
service to such association, or to any service corporation or
affiliate of such association, other than those related to and
usually provided in connection with a similar loan, discount,
deposit, or trust service; and

‘(C) that the customer shall not obtain some other credit,
roperty, or service from a competitor of such association, or
rom a competitor of any service corporation or affiliate of such

association, other than a condition or requirement that such
association shall reasonably impose in connection with credit
transactions to assure the soundness of credit.
103 STAT. 302 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

Courts, U.S.

“(2XA) Any person may sue for and have injunctive relief, in any
court of the United States having jurisdiction over the parties,
against threatened loss or damage by reason of a violation of
paragraph (1), under the same conditions and principles as injunc-
tive relief against threatened conduct that will cause loss or damage
is granted by courts of equity and under the rules governing such

P gs.

“(B) Upon the execution of proper bond against damages for an
injunction improvidently granted and a showing that the danger of
irreparable loss or damage is immediate, G pealiauinnes injunction
may issue.

“(8) Any person injured by a violation of paragraph (1) may bring
an action in any district court of the United States in which the
defendant resides or is found or has an agent, without regard to the
amount in controversy, or in any other court of competent jurisdic-
tion, and shall be entitled to recover three times the amount of the
damages sustained, and the cost of suit, including a reasonable
attorney’s fee. Any such action shall be brought within 4 years from
the date of the occurrence of the violation.

“(4) Nothing contained in this subsection affects in any manner
the right of the United States or any other party to bring an action
under any other law of the United States or of any State, including
any right which may exist in addition to specific statutory authority,
challenging the | ity of any act or practice which may be pro-
scribed by this su ion. No regulation or order issued by the
Director under this subsection shall in any manner constitute a
defense to such action.

“(5) For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘loan’ includes
obligations and extensions or advances of credit.

“(r) Out-or-StaTe BRANCHES.—(1) No Federal savings association
may establish, retain, or operate a branch outside the State in which
the Federal savings association has its home office, unless the
association qualifies as a domestic building and loan association
under section 7701(aX19) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or
meets the asset composition test imposed by subparagraph (c) of that
section on institutions seeking so to qualify. No out-of-State branch
so established shall be retained or operated unless the total assets of
the Federal savings association attributable to all branches of the
Federal savings association in that State would qualify the branches
as a whole, were they otherwise eligible, for treatment as a domestic
building and loan association under section 7701(aX(19).

“(2) The limitations of paragraph (1) shall not apply if—

“(A) the branch results from a transaction authorized under
section 13(k) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act;

‘(B) the branch was authorized for the Federal savings
association prior to October 15, 1982;

“(C) the law of the State where the branch would be located
would permit the branch to be established if the branch were a
Federal savi association chartered by the State in which its
home office is located; or

“(D) the branch was operated lawfully as a branch under
State law prior to the association’s conversion to a Federal

charter.

*(3) The Director, for good cause shown, may allow Federal sav-
ings associations up to 2 years to comply with the requirements of
this subsection.

“(s) MINIMUM CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS.—
PUBLIC LAW 101-78—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 303

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Consistent with the purposes of section 908
of the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 and the
capital requirements established pursuant to such section by
the appropriate Federal banking agencies (as defined in section
903(1) of such Act), the Director require all savings associa-
tions to achieve and maintain adequate capital by—

“(A) establishing minimum levels of capital for savings
associations; and

“(B) using such other methods as the Director determines
to be appropriate.

“(2) MINIMUM CAPITAL LEVELS MAY BE DETERMINED BY DIREC-
TOR CASE-BY-CASE.—The Director may, consistent with subsec-
tion (t), establish the minimum level of capital for a savings
association at such amount or at such ratio of capital-to-assets
as the Director determines to be necessary or appropriate for
such association in light of the particular circumstances of the
association.

“(3) UNSAFE OR UNSOUND PRACTICE.—In the Director’s discre-
tion, the Director may treat the failure of any savings associa-
tion to maintain capital at or above the minimum level required
by the Director under this subsection or subsection (t) as an
unsafe or unsound practice.

“(4) DIRECTIVE TO INCREASE CAPITAL.—

“(A) PLAN MAY BE REQUIRED.—In addition to any other
action authorized by law, including paragraph (3), the
Director may issue a directive requiring any savings
association which fails to maintain capital at or above the
minimum level required by the Director to submit and
adhere to a plan for increasing capital which is acceptable

to the Director.
‘“(B) ENFORCEMENT OF PLAN.—Any directive issued and
plan approved under sub ph (A) shall be enforceable

under section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to the
same extent and in the same manner as an outstandi
order which was issued under section 8 of the Feder.
Deposit Insurance Act and has become final.

“) N TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT IN OTHER PROCEEDINGS.—The

y
“(A) consider a savings association’s in adhering
to any plan required under picpime shel 4 ) whenever such
association or any affiliate of such association (including
any company which controls such association) seeks the
r’s approval for any proposal which would have the
effect of diverting earnings, diminishing capital, or other- .
wise impeding such association’s progress in meeting the
minimum level of capital required by the Director; and
‘(B) disapprove any proposal refe to in subparagraph
(A) if the Birecto r determines that the proposal would
adversely affect the ability of the association to comply with
such plan.
“(t) CAPITAL STANDARDS.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—
“(A) REQUIREMENT FOR STANDARDS TO BE PRESCRIBED.—
The Director shall, by regulation, prescribe and maintain
uniformly applicable capital standards for savings associa-
tions. Those standards shall include—
“(i) a leverage limit;
103 STAT. 304

PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989

“(ji) a tangible capital requirement; and
“(iii) a risk-based capital requirement.

“(B) CoMPLIANCE.—A savings association is not in compli-
ance with capital standards for purposes of this subsection
unless it complies with all capital standards prescribed
under this paragraph.

“(C) SrrinceNcy.—The standards prescribed under this
paragraph shall be no less stringent than the capital stand-
ards applicable to national banks.

“(D) DEADLINE FOR REGULATIONS.—The Director shall
promulgate final regulations under this paragraph not
later than 90 days after the date of enactment of the
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement
Act of 1989, and those regulations shall become effective
not later than 120 days after the date of enactment.

“(2) CONTENT OF STANDARDS.—

“(A) LEVERAGE LImit.—The leverage limit prescribed
under paragraph (1) shall require a savings association to
maintain core capital in an amount not less than 3 percent
of the savings association’s total assets.

“(B) TANGIBLE CAPITAL REQUIREMENT.—The tangible cap-
ital requirement prescribed under paragraph (1) shall re-
quire a savings association to maintain tangible capital in
an amount not less than 1.5 percent of the savings associa-
tion’s total assets.

“(C) RisK-BASED CAPITAL REQUIREMENT.—Notwithstanding
paragraph (1XC), the risk-based capital requirement pre-
scribed under paragraph (1) may deviate from the risk-
based capital standards applicable to national banks to
reflect interest-rate risk or other risks, but such deviations
shall not, in the aggregate, result in materially lower levels
of capital being required of savings associations under the
risk-based capital requirement than would be required
under the risk-based capital standards applicable to na-
tional banks.

(3) TRANSITION RULE.—

“(A) CERTAIN QUALIFYING SUPERVISORY GOODWILL IN-
CLUDED IN CALCULATING CORE CAPITAL.—Notwithstanding
paragraph (9A), an eligible savings association may in-
clude qualifying supervisory goodwill in calculating core
capital. The amount of qualifying supervisory goodwill that
may be included may not exceed the applicable percentage
of total assets set forth in the following table:

“For the following The applicable
period:

percentage is:
Prior to January 1, 1992. 1.500 percent
January 1, 1992-December 31, 1992 1,000 percent
January 1, 1993-December 31, 1993 0.750 percent
January 1, 1994-December 31, 1994 0.375 percent
Thereafter 0 percent

“(B) ELIGIBLE SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—For purposes of
subparagraph (A), a savings association is an eligible sav-
ings association so long as the Director determines that—

“(i) the savings association’s management is com-
petent;
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 305

“(ii) the savings association is in substantial compli-
ance with all applicable statutes, regulations, orders,
and supervisory agreements and directives; and

bso gr sa - sage ~ a ragga has not
eng in insider speculative practices, or
any other activities that have jeopardized the associa-
tion’s safety and soundness or contributed to impairing
the association’s capital.

“(4) SPECIAL RULES FOR PURCHASED MORTGAGE SERVICING
RIGHTS.—

“(A) In pore Roast ear ipinee paragra on at
and (9), the standards prescribed under age 3, she ) may
permit a savings association to include in ating cap-
ital for the purpose of the leverage limit and risk-based
capital requirement prescribed under paragraph (1), on
terms no less stringent than under both the capital stand-
ards applicable to State nonmember banks and (except as to
the amount that may be included in calculating capital) the
capital standards applicable to national banks, 90 percent
of the fair market value of readily marketable purchased
mo servicing rights.

“(B) TANGIBLE CAPITAL REQUIREMENT.—Notwithstanding
ee (1XC) and (9X(C), the standards prescribed under

h (1) may permit a savings association to include
in age es ting capital for the purpose of the tangible capital
requirement prescribed under paragraph (1), on terms no
less stringent than under both the capital standards ap-
plicable to State nonmember banks and (except as to the
amount that may be included in calculating capital) the
capital standards applicable to national banks, 90 percent
of the fair market value of readily marketable purchased
mortgage servicing rights.

“(C) PERCENTAGE LIMITATION PRESCRIBED BY FDIC.—Not-
withstanding paragraph (1XC) and subparagraphs (A) and
(B) of this paragraph—

“(i) for the purpose of subparagraph (A), the maxi-
mum amount of purchased mortgage servicing rights
that may be included in calculating capital under the
leverage limit and the risk-based capital requirement
prescribed under paragraph (1) may not exceed the
amount that could be included if the savings associa-
tion were an insured State nonmember bank; and

“(ii) for the purpose of subparagraph (B), the Cor-
poration s nei reece a maximum percentage of the
tangible capital requirement that savings associations
may satisfy by including purchased mortgage servicing
rights in calculating such capital.

“(D) QUARTERLY VALUATION.—The fair market value of
purchased mortgage servicing rights shall be determined
not less often than quarterly.

“(5) SEPARATE CAPITALIZATION REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN SUBSIDI-
ARIES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In determining compliance with cap-
ital standards prescribed under paragraph (1), all of a
Savings association’s investments in and extensions of
credit to any subsidiary engaged in activities not permis-
103 STAT. 306

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG, 9, 1989

sible for a national bank shall be deducted from the savings
association’s capital.

“(B) EXCEPTION FOR AGENCY ACTIVITIES.—Subparagraph
(A) shall not apply with respect to a subsidiary engaged,
solely as agent for its customers, in activities not permis-
sible for a national bank unless the Corporation, in its sole
discretion, determines that, in the interests of safety and
soundness, this subparagraph should cease to apply to that
subsidiary. .

“(C) OrHerR EXCEPTIONS.—Subparagraph (A) shall not
apply with respect to any of the following:

“(i) MORTGAGE BANKING SUBSIDIARIES.—A savings
association’s investments in and extensions of credit to
a subsidiary engaged solely in mortgage-banking activi-
ties.

“(ii) SUBSIDIARY INSURED DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS.—
A savings association’s investments in and extensions
of credit to a subsidiary—

“(I) that is itself an insured depository .institu-
tion or a company the sole investment of which is
an insured depository institution, and

“(I) that was acquired by the parent insured
depository institution prior to May 1, 1989.

“(jii) CERTAIN FEDERAL SAVINGS BANKS.—Any Federal
savings association existing as a Federal savings
association on the date of enactment of the Financial
ene Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of

“(1) that was chartered prior to October 15, 1982,
as a savings bank or a cooperative bank under
State law; or

“(II) that acquired its principal assets from an
association that was chartered prior to October 15,
1982, as a savings bank or a cooperative bank
under State law.

“(D) TRANSITION RULE.—

“(i) INCLUSION IN CAPITAL.—Notwithstanding
subparagraph (A), if a savings association’s subsidiary
was, as of April 12, 1989, engaged in activities not
permissible for a national bank, the savings association
may include in calculating capital the applicable
percentage (set forth in clause (ii)) of the lesser of—

“(1) the savings association’s investments in and
rg of credit to the subsidiary on April 12,

; or

“(ID the savings association’s investments in and
extensions of credit to the subsidiary on the date as
of which the savings association’s capital is being
determined.

“(ii) APPLICABLE PERCENTAGE.—F or purposes of clause
(i), the applicable percentage is as follows:

“For the following The applicable
period: percentage is:
Prior to July 1, 1990 100 percent
July 1, 1990-June 30, 1991 90 percent
July 1, 1991-June 30, 1992 75 percent
July 1, 1992-June 30, 1993 es 60 percent
July 1, 1998-June 30, 1994 40 percent

Thereafter 0 percent

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 307

“(iii) FDIC’s DISCRETION TO PRESCRIBE LESSER PERCENT-
AGE.—The Corporation may prescribe by order, with
respect to a particular savings association, an ap-
plicable percentage less than that provided in clause (ii)
if the Corporation determines, in its sole discretion,
that the use of a greater percentage would, under the
circumstances, constitute an unsafe or unsound prac-
tice or be likely to result in the association’s being in
an unsafe or unsound condition.

“(E) CONSOLIDATION OF SUBSIDIARIES NOT SEPARATELY
CAPITALIZED.—In determining compliance with capital
standards prescribed under paragraph (1), the assets and
liabilities of each of a savings association’s subsidiaries
(other than any subsidiary described in subparagraph
(CXii)) shall be consolidated with the savings association’s
assets and liabilities, unless all of the savings association’s
investments in and extensions of credit to the subsidiary
are deducted from the savings association’s capital pursu-
ant to subparagraph (A).

(6) CONSEQUENCES OF FAILING TO COMPLY WITH CAPITAL
STANDARDS.—

“(A) Prior TO JANUARY 1, 1991.—Prior to January 1, 1991,
the Director—

“(j) may restrict the asset growth of any savings
association not in compliance with capital standards;

and

“(ii) shall, beginning 60 days following the promulga-
tion of final regulations under this subsection, require
any savings association not in compliance with capital
= to submit a plan under subsection (s\4)(A)

t—

“(I) addresses the savings association’s need for
increased capital;

“(II) describes the manner in which the savings
association will increase its capital so as to achieve
compliance with capital standards;

" specifies the types and levels of activities in
which the savings association will engage;

“(IV) requires any increase in assets to be accom-
panied by an increase in tangible capital not less in
percentage amount than the leverage limit then
applicab e;

(V) requires any increase in assets to be accom-
panied by an increase in eos not less in percent-
age amount than requi under the risk-based
capital standard then ey ra and

‘(VI is acceptable to the Director.

“(B) ON OR AFTER JANUARY 1, 1991.—On or after Jan-
uary 1, 1991, the Director—

“(i) shall prohibit any asset growth by any savings
association not in gaa a with capital standards,
except as provided in subparagraph (C); and

“(ii) shall require any savings association not in
compliance with capital standards to comply with a
capital directive issued by the Director (which may
103 STAT. 308

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

include such restrictions, including restrictions on the
yment of dividends and on compensation, as the
irector determines to be appropriate).

‘(C) LIMITED GROWTH EXCEPTION.—The Director may
permit any savings association that is subject to subpara-
graph (B) to increase its assets in an amount not exceeding
the amount of net interest credited to the savings associa-
tion’s deposit liabilities if—

“(i) the savings association obtains the Director’s
prior approval;

“(ii) any increase in assets is accompanied by an
increase in tangible capital in an amount not less than
6 percent of the increase in assets (or, in the Director’s
discretion if the leverage limit then applicable is less
than 6 percent, in an amount equal to the increase in
assets multiplied by the percentage amount of the
leverage limit);

“(iii) any increase in assets is accompanied by an
increase in capital not less in percentage amount than
required under the risk-b capital standard then
applicable;

‘(iv) any increase in assets is invested in low-risk
assets, such as first mortgage loans secured by 1- to 4-
eaely residences and fully secured consumer loans;
an

“(v) the savings association’s ratio of core capital to
total assets is not less than the ratio existing on Janu-
ary 1, 1991.

“(D) ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS IN CASE OF EXCESSIVE RISKS
OR RATES.—The Director may restrict the asset growth of
any savings association that the Director determines is
taking excessive risks or paying excessive rates for deposits.

“(E) FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PLAN, REGULATION, OR
ORDER.—The Director shall treat as an unsafe and unsound
practice any material failure by a savings association to
comply with any plan, regulation, or order under this para-

aph.

‘(F) EFFECT ON OTHER REGULATORY AUTHORITY.—This
paragraph does not limit any authority of the Director
under other provisions of law.

“(T) EXEMPTION FROM CERTAIN SANCTIONS.—

‘“(A) APPLICATION FOR EXEMPTION.—Any savings associa-
tion not in compliance with the capital standards pre-
scribed under paragraph (1) may apply to the Director for
an exemption from any applicable sanction or penalty for
noncompliance which the Director may impose.

“(B) ErFrECT OF GRANT OF EXEMPTION.—If the Director
approves any savings association’s application under
subparagraph (A), the only sanction or penalty to be im-
posed by the Director for the savings association’s failure to
comply with the capital standards prescribed under para-
graph (1) is the growth limitation contained in paragraph
(6\(B) or paragraph (6\C), whichever is applicable.

“(C) STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.—

“(i) AppROvAL.—The Director may approve an ap-
— for an exemption if the Director determines
that—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 309

“(l) such exemption would pose no significant
risk to the aff deposit insurance fund;

“(II) the savings association’s management is
competent;

“(ITl) the savings association is in substantial
compliance with all applicable statutes, regula-
tions, orders, and supervisory agreements and

directives; and
“(IV) the savings association’s management has
not engaged in insider dealing, s tive prac-

tices, or any other activities that have jeopardized
the association’s safety and soundness or contrib-
uted to impairing the association’s capital.

“Gii) DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF APPROVAL.—The
Director shall deny any application submitted under
clause (i) and revoke any prior approval granted with
respect to any such application if the Director deter-
mines that the association’s failure to meet any capital
standards prescribed under paragraph (1) is accom-
panied by—

“(I) a pattern of consistent losses;

(II) substantial dissipation of assets;

“(ID evidence of imprudent management or
business behavior;

“(IV) a material violation of any Federal law,
any law of any State to which such association is
subject, or any applicable regulation; or

“(V) any other unsafe or unsound condition or
activity, other than the failure to meet such capital
standards.

“(D) SUBMISSION OF PLAN REQUIRED.—Any application
submitted under subparagraph (A) shall be accompanied by
a plan which—

» meets the requirements of paragraph (6)\A)(ii);
an

“(ii) is acceptable to the Director.

“(E) FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PLAN.—The Director shall
treat as an unsafe and unsound practice any material
failure by any savings association which has been granted
an exemption under this paragierh to comply with the
provisions of an, plan submitted by such association under

Bi sp abies
“(F) EXEMPTION NOT AVAILABLE WITH RESPECT TO UNSAFE
OR UNSOUND PRACTICES.—This paragraph does not limit any
authority of the Director under any other provision of law,
including section 8 of the Federal Deposit ttitance Act, to
take oh appropriate action with respect to any unsafe or
unsound practice or condition of any savings association,
other than the failure of such savings association to comply
with the capital standards prescribed under paragraph (1).
“(8) TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO MAKE EXCEPTIONS FOR ELIGIBLE
SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(C), the
Director may, by order, make exceptions to the capital
standards prescribed under paragraph (1) for eligible sav-
ings associations. No exception under this paragraph shall
be effective after January 1, 1991.
103 STAT. 310

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(B) STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.—In deter-
mining whether to grant an exception under subparagraph
(A), the Director shall apply the same standards as apply to
determinations under paragraph (7XC).

“(9) DEFINITIONS.—For pu of this subsection—

“(A) Core caprraL.—Unless the Director prescribes a
more stringent definition, the term ‘core capital’ means
core capital as defined by the Comptroller of the Currency
for national banks, less any unidentifiable intangible
assets, plus any purchased mortgage servicing rights ex-
cluded from the Comptroller’s definition of capital but in-
cluded in calculating the core capital of savings associations
pursuant to paragraph (4).

“(B) QUALIFYING SUPERVISORY GOODWILL.—The term
‘qualifying supervisory goodwill’ means supervisory good-
will existing on April 12, 1989, amortized on a straightline
basis over the shorter of—

“(i) 20 years, or
“(ii) the remaining period for amortization in effect
on April 12, 1989.

“(C) TANGIBLE CAPITAL.—The term ‘tangible capital’
means core capital minus any intangible assets (as intangi-
ble assets are defined by the Comptroller of the Currency
for national banks).

“(D) Tora. assets.—The term ‘total assets’ means total
assets (as total assets are defined by the Comptroller of the
Currency for national banks) adjusted in the same manner
as total assets would be adjusted in determining compliance
with the leverage limit applicable to national banks if the
savings association were a national bank.

“(10) Use OF COMPTROLLER’S DEFINITIONS.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—The standards prescribed under para-
graph (1) shall include all relevant substantive definitions
= by the Comptroller of the Currency for national

“(B) SPECIAL RULE.—If the Comptroller of the Currency
has not made effective regulations defining core capital or
establishing a risk-based capital standard, the Director
shall use the definition and standard contained in the
Comptroller's most recently published final regulations.

“(u) Limrrs ON LOANS TO ONE BoRROWER.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 5200 of the Revised Statutes shall
apply to savings associations in the same manner and to the
same extent as it applies to national banks.

“(2) SPECIAL RULES.—

“(A) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a savings association
pe make loans to one borrower under one of the following
clauses:

“(i) for any purpose, not to exceed $500,000; or
“(ii) to develop domestic residential housing units,
not to exceed the lesser of $30,000,000 or 30 percent of
the savings association’s unimpaired capital and
unimpaired surplus, if—
“(I) the purchase price of each single family
dwelling unit the development of which is financed
under this clause does not exceed $500,000;
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 311

“(I]) the savings association is and continues to
be in compliance with the fully phased-in capital
standards prescribed under subsection (t);

“(III) the Director, by order, permits the savings
association to avail itself of the higher limit pro-
vided by this clause;

“([V) loans made under this clause to all borrow-
ers do not, in aggregate, exceed 150 percent of the
savings association’s unimpaired capital and
unimpaired surplus; and

“(V) such loans comply with all applicable loan-
to-value requirements.

“(B) A savings association’s loans to one borrower to Real property.
finance the sale of real property acquired in satisfaction of
debts previously contracted in good faith shall not exceed 50
percent of the savings association’s unimpaired capital and
unimpaired surplus.

“(3) AUTHORITY TO IMPOSE MORE STRINGENT RESTRICTIONS.—
The Director may impose more stringent restrictions on a sav-
ings association’s loans to one borrower if the Director deter-
mines that such restrictions are necessary to protect the safety
and soundness of the savings association.

“(yv) Reports oF CoNDITION.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Each association shall make reports of
conditions to the Director which shall be in a form prescribed by
the Director and shall contain—

“(A) information sufficient to allow the identification of
potential interest rate and credit risk;

“(B) a description of any assistance being received by the
association, including the type and monetary value of such
assistance;

‘(C) the identity of all subsidiaries and affiliates of the
association;

“(D) the identity, value, type, and sector of investment of
at eee investments of the associations and subsidiaries;

an
“(E) other information that the Director may prescribe.
“(2) PUBLIC DISCLOSURE.—

“(A) Reports required under paragraph (1) and all
information contained therein shall be available to the
public upon request, unless the Director determines—

“G) that a particular item or classification of Classified
information should not be made public in order to ‘formation.
protect the safety or soundness of the institution con-
cerned or institutions concerned, the Savings Associa-
tion Insurance Fund; or

“(ii) that public disclosure would not otherwise be in
the public interest.

“(B) Any determination made by the Director under
subparagraph (A) not to permit the public disclosure of
information shall be made in writing, and if the Director
restricts any item of information for savings institutions
generally, the Director shall disclose the reason in detail in
the Federal Register.

“(C) The Director’s determinations under subparagraph
(A) shall not be subject to judicial review.

“(3) ACCESS BY CERTAIN PARTIES.—
103 STAT. 312

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(A) Notwithstanding paragraph (2), the persons de-
scribed in subparagraph (B) shall not be denied access to
any information contained in a report of condition, subject
to reasonable requirements of confidentiality. Those
requirements shall not prevent such information from
being transmitted to the Comptroller General of the United
States for analysis.

“(B) The following persons are described in this subpara-
graph for purposes of subparagraph (A):

“(i) the Chairman and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs of the Senate and their designees; an

“(ii) the Chairman and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs
of the House of Representatives and their designees.

“(4) First TIER PENALTIES.—Any savings association which—

“(A) maintains procedures reasonably adapted to avoid
any inadvertent and unintentional error and, as a result of
such an error—

“(i) fails to submit or publish any report or informa-
tion required by the Director under paragraph (1) or (2),
within the period of time specified by the Director; or

“(ii) submits or publishes any false or misleading
report or information; or

“(B) inadvertently transmits or publishes any report
which is minimally late,

shall be subject to a penalty of not more than $2,000 for each
day during which such failure continues or such false or mis-
leading information is not corrected. The savings association
shall have the burden of proving by a preponderence of the
evidence that an error was inadvertent and unintentional and
that a report was inadvertently transmitted or published late.

Mel SECOND TIER PENALTIES.—Any savings association
which—

“(A) fails to submit or publish any report or information
required by the Director under paragraph (1) or (2), within
the period of time specified by the Director; or

“(B) submits or publishes any false or misleading report
or information,

in a manner not described in paragraph (4) shall be subject to a
penalty of not more than $20,000 for each day during which
such failure continues or such false or misleading information is
not corrected.

“(6) THIRD TIER PENALTIES.—If any savings association know-
ingly or with reckless disregard for the accuracy of any informa-
tion or report described in paragraph (5) gic or publishes
any false or misleading report or information, the Director may
assess a penalty of not more cian $1,000,000 or 1 smeibea of total
assets, whichever is less, per day for each day during which
such failure continues or such false or misleading information is
ee: 3 kena A al d h (4),

“( ESSMENT.—Any penalty imposed under paragrap
(5), or (6) shall be meal 4 and collected by the Director in the
manner provided in subparagraphs (E), (F), (G), and (D of section
&(iX2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (for penalties im-

under such section), and any such assessment (including
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

the determination of the amount of the penalty) shall be subject
to the provisions of such subsection.

“(8) Hearinc.—Any savings association against which any
a is assessed under this subsection shall be afforded a

earing if such savings association submits a request for such
hearing within 20 days after the issuance of the notice of
assessment. Section 8(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
shall apply to any proceeding under this subsection.

“SEC. 6. LIQUID ASSET REQUIREMENTS.

“(a) IN GENERAL.—The purpose of this section is to provide a
means for ipa, ayy and flexible liquidity in savings associa-
tions which can in when mortgage money is plentiful,
maintained in easily liquidated instruments, and reduced to add to
the flow of funds to the mortgage market in periods of credit
stringency. More flexible liquidity will help support sound mortgage
credit and a more stable supply of such credit.

“(b) MAINTENANCE OF ACCOUNT.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Every savings association shall maintain
the aggregate amount of its assets of the following t at not
less than such amount as, in the opinion of the Director, is
appropriate:

‘(A) cash;

“(B) balances maintained in a Federal reserve bank or passed
through a Federal home loan bank or another ot
institution to a Federal reserve bank pursuant to the Federal
Reserve Act; and

“(C) to such extent as the Director may approve for the
purposes of this section—

“(@) time and savings deposits in Federal home loan
banks, institutions which are, or are eligible to become,
members thereof, and commercial banks;

“(ii) such obligations, including such special obligations,
of the United States, a State, any territory or possession of
the United States, or a political subdivision, agency, or
instrumentality of any one or more of the foregoing, and
bankers’ acceptances, as the Director may approve;

“(iii) shares or certificates of any open-end management
investment ——— which is registered with the Securities
and Exchange Commission under the Investment Compan
Act of 1940 and the portfolio of which is restricted by suc
investment company’s investment policy, changeable only
if authorized by shareholder vote, solely to any of the
obligations or other investments enumerated in subpara-
graph (A) and in clauses (i), (ii), (iv), (v), (vi), and (vii) of this
subparagraph;

“(iv) op highly rated corporate debt obligations with 3
years or less remaining until maturity;

“(v) highly rated commercial paper with 270 days or less
remaining until maturity;

“(vi) mortgage related securities (as that term is defined
in section 3(a)(41) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934)—

Bo that have one year or less remaining until matu-
rity; or
‘ID that are subject to an agreement (including a
repurchase agreement, put option, right of redemption,
or takeout commitment) that requires another’ person

103 STAT. 313

12 USC 1465.

Securities.
103 STAT. 314

Real property.

Regulations.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

to purchase the securities within a period that does not
exceed one year, and that person is an insured deposi-
tory institution (as defined in section 3 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act) that is in compliance with ap-
licable capital standards, a primary dealer in United
tates Government securities, or a broker or dealer
—— tered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
an
“(vii) mortgage loans on the security of a first lien on
residential real property, if the mortgage loans qualify as
backing for mortgage-backed securities issued by the Fed-
eral National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Association or guaranteed by the Govern-
ment National Mortgage Association, and either—
“(I the mortgage loans have one year or less remain-
ing until maturity, or
‘UD the mortgage loans are subject to an agreement
(including a repurchase agreement, put option, right of
redemption, or takeout commitment) that requires an-
other person to purchase the loans within a period that
does not exceed one year, and that person is an insured
depository institution (as defined in section 3 of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act) that is in compliance
with a eirsoag capital standards, a primary dealer in
Uni tates Government securities, or a broker or
ee registered under the Securities Exchange Act of
“(2) LimIraTION.—The requirement prescribed by the Director
pursuant to this subsection (hereafter in this section referred to
as the ‘liquidity requirement’) may not be less than 4 percent or
more than 10 percent of the obligation of the institution on
withdrawable accounts and borrowings page on demand or
with unexpired maturities of one year or less. The Director shall
aes regulations to implement the provisions of this subsec-
on.

“(c) CALCULATION.—The amount of any savings association’s
liquidity requirement, and any deficiency in compliance therewith,
shall be calculated as the Director shall prescribe. The Director may
prescribe different pend requirements, within the limitations
specified herein, for different classes of savings associations, and for
such purposes the Director is authorized to classify savings associa-
tions according to type, size, location, rate of withdrawals, or on
such other basis or bases of differentiation as the Director may deem
to be reasonably necessary or appropriate for the purposes of this
section.

“(d) DericteNncy ASSESSMENTS.—F or any deficiency in compliance
with the liquidity requirements, the Director may, in the Director’s
discretion, assess a penalty consisting of the payment by the institu-
tion of such sum as may be by the Director but not in
excess of a rate equal to the highest rate on Federal home loan bank
advances of one year or less, plus 2 percent per year, on the amount
of the deficiency for the period with respect to which the deficiency
existed. Any penalty assessed under this subsection inst a sav-
ings association shall be paid to the Director. The Director may
authorize or require that, at any time before collection thereof, and
whether before or after the bringing of any action or other legal
proceeding, the obtaining of any judgment or other recovery, or the
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 315

issuance or levy of any execution or other legal process therefor, and
with or without consideration, any such penalty or recovery be
compromised, remitted, or mitigated in whole or part. The penalties
authorized under this subsection are in addition to all remedies and
sanctions otherwise available.

“(e) REDUCTION OR SUSPENSION.— Whenever the Director deems it
advisable in order to enable a savings association to meet withdraw-
als or to pay obligations, the Director may, to such extent and
subject to such conditions as the Director may prescribe, permit the
savings association to reduce its liquidity below the minimum
amount. Whenever the Director determines that conditions of na-
tional emergency or unusual economic stress exist, the Director may
suspend any part or all of the liquidity requirements hereunder for
such period as the Director may prescribe. Any such suspension,
unless sooner terminated by its terms or by the Director, shall
terminate at the expiration of 90 days next after its commencement.
The preceding sentence does not prevent the Director from again
exercising, before, at, or after any such termination, the authority
conferred by this subsection.

“(f) ReGuLATING AuTHORITY.—The Director is authorized to issue
such regulations, including definitions of terms used in this section,
to make such examinations, and to conduct such investigations as
the Director deems necessary or appropriate to effectuate the pur-
poses of this section. The reasonable cost of any such examination or
investigation, as determined by the Director, shall be paid by the
association.

“SEC. 7. APPLICABILITY. Territories, U.S.

12 USC 1466.
“The provisions of this Act shall apply to the United States and to
Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.

“SEC. 8. DISTRICT ASSOCIATIONS. District of
Columbi

“(a) In GENERAL.—The Director shall, with respect to all incor- 12 USC 1466a.
— or unincorporated building, building or loan, building and
oan, or homestead associations, and similar institutions, of or
transacting or doing business in the District of Columbia, or
maintaining any office in the District of Columbia (other than
Federal savings associations), have the same powers and functions
as to examination, operation, and regulation as the Director has
with respect to Federal savings associations.

“(b) AppITIONAL Powers.—Any such association or institution
incorporated under the laws of, or organized in, the District of
Columbia shall have in addition to any existing statutory authority
such statutory authority as is vested in Federal savings associations.

“(c) CHARTER AMENDMENTS.—Charters, certificates of incorpora-
tion, articles of incorporation, constitutions, bylaws, or other organic
documents of associations or institutions referred to in subsection (b)
of this section may, without regard to anything contained therein or
otherwise, be amended in such manner and to such extent and upon
such hie if any as the Director may by regulation or otherwise
provide.

“(d) Limrration.—Nothing in this section shall cause, or permit
the Director to cause, District of Columbia associations to be or
become Federal savings associations, or require the Director to
impose on District of Columbia associations the same regulations as
are imposed on Federal savings associations.
103 STAT. 316

12 USC 1467.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“SEC. 9. EXAMINATION FEES.

“(a) EXAMINATION OF SAVINGS AssocIATIONS.—The cost of conduct-
ing examinations of savi associations pursuant to section 5(d) of
this Act shall be assessed by the Director against each such savings
association in proportion to the assets or resources of the savings

“(b) EXAMINATION OF AFFILIATES.—The cost of conducting
examinations of affiliates of savings associations pursuant to this
Act may be assessed by the Director against each affiliate which is
examined in proportion to the assets or resources held by the
affiliate on the date of any such examination.

“(c) ASSESSMENT AGAINST ASSOCIATION IN CASE OF AFFILIATE’S
Rerusa To Pay.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), if any affiliate of
any savings association—

“(A) refuses to pay any assessment under subsection (b);
or
“(B) fails to pay any such assessment before the end of
the 60-day period beginning on the date of the assessment,
the Director may assess such cost against, and collect such cost
from, such savings association.

“(2) AFFILIATE OF MORE THAN 1 SAVINGS ASSOCIATION.—If any
affiliate referred to in paragraph (1) is an affiliate of more than
1 savings association, the assessment with respect to the affili-
ate against, and collected from, any affiliated savings associa-
tion in such proportions as the Director may prescribe.

“(d) Crviy Money Pernatty ror AFFILIATE’S REFUSAL To
CooPERATE.—

“(1) PENALTY IMPOSED.—If any affiliate of any savings associa-
tion—

“(A) refuses to permit any examiner appointed by the
Director to make an examination; or
‘“(B) refuses to provide any information required to be
disclosed in the course of any examination,
the savings association shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of
not more than $5,000 for each day that any such refusal contin-
ues.

“(2) ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION.—Any penalty imposed
under paragraph (1) shall be assessed and collected by the
Director, in the manner provided in section 8(iX2) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act.

““(e) ULATIONS.—Only the Director may prescribe regulations
with respect to—

“(1) the computation of, and the assessment for, the cost of
conducting examinations pursuant to this section; and

“(2) the collection and use of such assessments and any fees
under this section.

Such regulations may establish formulas to determine a fee or
schedule of fees to cover the costs of examinations and also to cover
the cost of processing applications, filings, notices, and requests for
approvals by the Director or the Director’s rg “re

‘(f) CoLLECTION THROUGH FDIC or FeperAL Home LOAN BANKs.—
The Corporation or the Federal home loan banks shall, upon request
of and by agreement with the Director, collect fees and assessments
on behalf of the Director and be reimbursed for the actual cost of
collection.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(g) Costs oF OTHER EXAMINATIONS.—

“(1) EXAMINATION OF FIDUCIARY ACTIviTIES.—In addition to
any assessment imposed pursuant to subsection (a), the cost of
conducting examinations of fiduciary activities of savings
associations which exercise fiduciary powers (including savings
associations or similar institutions in the District of Columbia)
shall be assessed by the Director against such savings associa-
tions (or similar institutions).

“(2) EXAMINATIONS IN EXCESS OF 2 PER CALENDAR YEAR.—If
any savings association or affiliate of a savings association is
examined by the Director, or the Corporation, as the case may
be, more than 2 times in any calendar year, the cost of conduct-
ing such additional examinations s be assessed, in addition
to any assessment imposed pursuant to subsection (a), by the
Director or the Corporation, as the case may be, against such
savings association or affiliate.

“(h) AppITIONAL INFORMATION.—Any savings association and an
affiliate of any savings association shall provide the Director wit
access to any information or report with respect to any examination
made by any public regulatory authority and furnish any additional
information with res thereto as the Di r may require.

“(j) TREATMENT OF ATION ASSESSMENTS.—

“(1) Depositrs.—Amounts received by the Director from assess-
ments under this section (other than an assessment under
subsection (dX2)) or section 10(b\4) may be deposited in the
manner provided in section 5234 of the Revised Statutes with
res to assessments by the Comptroller of the Currency.

“(2) ASSESSMENTS ARE NOT GOVERNMENT FUNDS.—The amounts
received by the Director from any assessment under this section
shall not be construed to be Government or public funds or
appropriated money.

‘(3) ASSESSMENTS ARE NOT SUBJECT TO APPORTIONMENT OF
FUNDS.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
amounts received by the Director from any assessment under
this section shall not be subject to apportionment for the pur-
pose of chapter 15 of title 31, United States Code, or under any
other authority.

“(j) Processinc Frr.—The Director may, in the Director’s sole
discretion, assess against any person that submits to the Director an
application, filing, notice, or request a fee to cover the cost of
processing such submission.

“(k) Fegs FoR EXAMINATIONS AND SuPERViIsORY ActTiviTiIEs.—The
Director may assess against institutions for which the Director is
the appropriate Federal banking agency, within the meaning of
section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, fees to fund the
direct and indirect expenses of the Office. Such fees shall be imposed
in proportion of the assets or resources of the institutions. The fees
may be imposed more frequently than annually at the discretion of
the Director. The annual rate of such fees shall be the same for all
institutions subject to such fees.

“()) WorkiNG CaprraL.—The Director is authorized to impose fees
and assessments pursuant to subsections (a), (b), (e), and (k) of this
section, in excess of actual expenses for any given year, to permit
the Director to maintain a working capital fund. The Director shall
remit to the payors of such fees and assessments any funds collected
in excess of what he deems necessary to maintain such working
capital fund.

103 STAT. 317
103 STAT. 318 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

12 USC 1467a.

“(m) Use or Funps.—The Director is authorized to use the com-
bined resources retained through fees and assessments imposed
pursuant to this section to pay all direct and indirect salary and
administrative expenses of the Office, including contracts and pur-
chases of property and services, and the direct and indirect expenses
of the examinations and supervisory activities of the Office.

“SEC. 10. REGULATION OF HOLDING COMPANIES.

“(a) DEFINITIONS.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—As used in this section, unless the context
otherwise requires—

“(A) SAVINGS ASSOCIATION.—The term ‘savings associa-
tion’ includes a savings bank or cooperative bank which is
deemed by the Director to be a savings association under
subsection (1).

‘“(B) UNINSURED INSTITUTION.—The term ‘uninsured
institution’ means any depository institution the deposits of
which are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation.

“(C) Company.—The term ‘company’ means any corpora-
tion, partnership, trust, joint-stock company, or similar
organization, but does not include the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, the Resolution Trust Corporation,
any Federal home loan bank, or any company the majority
of the shares of which is owned by the United States or any
ae, or by an instrumentality of the United States or any

tate.

“(D) SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANY.—The term
‘savings and loan holding company’ means any company
which directly or indirectly controls a savings association or
controls any other company which is a savings and loan
holding company.

“(E) MULTIPLE SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANY.—
The term ‘multiple savings and loan holding sige
means any savings and loan holding company which di-
rectly or indirectly controls 2 or more savings associations.

“(F) DIVERSIFIED SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANY.—
The term ‘diversified savings and loan holding company’
means any savings and loan holding company whose
subsidiary savings association and related activities as per-
mitted under paragraph (2) of subsection (c) of this section
represented, on either an actual or a pro forma basis, less
than 50 percent of its consolidated net worth at the close of
its preceding fiscal year and of its consolidated net earnings
for such fiscal year, as determined in accordance with
regulations issued by the Director.

(G) Sussmprary.—The term ‘subsidiary’ has the same
penning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance

ct.

“(H) Arritiate.—The term ‘affiliate’ of a savings associa-
tion means any person which controls, is controlled by, or is
under common control with, such savings association.

“() BANK HOLDING COMPANY.—The terms ‘bank holding
company and ‘bank’ have the meanings given to such
oe in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(J) AcquirE.—The term ‘acquire’ has the meaning given
to such term in section 13(f(8) of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act.

“(2) ControLt.—For purposes of this section, a person shall be
deemed to have control of—

“(A) a savings association if the person directly or in-
directly or acting in concert with one or more other per-
sons, or through one or more subsidiaries, owns, controls, or
holds with power to vote, or holds proxies representing,
more than 25 percent of the voting Bs of such savings
association, or controls in any manner the election of a

jority of the directors of such association;

“(B) any other company if the person directly or in-
directly or acting in concert with one or more other per-
sons, or through one or more subsidiaries, owns, controls, or
holds with to vote, or holds proxies — 4
more than ob percent of the voting shares or rights of suc
other company, or controls in any manner the election or
appointment of a majority of the directors or trustees of
such other company, or is a general er in or has
contributed more than 25 percent of the capital of such
other company;

“(C) a trust if the person is a trustee thereof; or

“(D) a savings association or any other company if the
Director determines, after reasonable notice and oppor-
tunity for hearing, that such person directly or indirectly
exercises a controlling influence over the management or
policies of such association or other company.

“(3) Excitusions.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
this subsection, the term ‘savings and loan holding company’
does not include—

“(A) any company by virtue of its ownership or control of
voting shares of a savings association or a savings and loan
holding company acquired in connection with the under-
writing of securities if such shares are held only for such
period of time (not eran ry 120 days unless extended by
ee as will permit the sale thereof on a reasonable
basis; an

‘(B) any trust (other than a pension, profit-sharing,
shareholders’, voting, or business trust) which controls a
savi association or a savings and loan holding company
if such trust by its terms must terminate within or
not later than 21 years and 10 months after the death of
individuals living on the effective date of the trust, and is (i)
in existence on June 26, 1967, or (ii) a testamentary trust
created on or after June 26, 1967.

“(4) SPECIAL RULE RELATING TO QUALIFIED STOCK ISSUANCE.—
No savings and loan holding company shall be deemed to
control a savings association solely by reason of the purchase b
such savings and loan et company of shares issued by suc.
Savings association, or issued by any savings and loan holding
company (other than a bank holding company) which controls
such savings association, in connection with a qualified stock
qcionction SOCOM poilees ie ogee g cxstags aed foam belt
8 on , unless the sa and loan hold-
ing company, directly or ledicectil, or ection in concert with 1
or more other persons, or through 1 or more subsidiaries, owns,

103 STAT. 319
103 STAT. 320 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

controls, or holds with power to vote, or holds proxies represent-
ing, more than 15 percent of the voting shares of such savings
association or holding company.

“(b) REGISTRATION AND MINATION.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Within 90 days after becoming a savings
and loan holding company, each savings and loan holding com-
oom shall register with the Director on forms prescribed by the

irector, which shall include such information, under oath or
otherwise, with respect to the financial condition, ownership,
operations, management, and intercompany relationships of
such holding company and its subsidiaries, and related matters,
as the Director may deem necessary or appropriate to carry out
the purposes of this section. Upon application, the Director may
extend the time within which a savings and loan holding com-
pany shall register and file the requisite information.

‘“(2) Reports.—Each savings and loan holding company and
each subsidiary thereof, other than a savings association, shall
file with the Director, and the regional office of the Director of
the district in which its principal office is located, such reports
as may be required by the Director. Such reports shall be made
under oath or otherwise, and shall be in such form and for such
periods, as the Director may prescribe. Each report shall con-
tain such information concerning the operations of such savings
and loan holding company and its subsidiaries as the Director

ma uire.

*(8) KS AND RECORDS.—Each savings and loan holding
company shall maintain such books and records as may be
prescribed by the Director.

“(4) EXAMINATIONS.—Each savings and loan holding company
and each subsidiary thereof (other than a bank) shall be subject
to such examinations as the Director may prescribe. The cost of
such examinations shall be assessed against and paid by such
holding op oy . Examination and other reports may be fur-
nished by the Director to the appropriate State supervisory
authority. The Director shall, to the extent deemed feasible, use
for the purposes of this subsection reports filed with or
examinations made by other Federal agencies or the appro-
priate State supervisory authority.

“(5) AGENT FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS.—The Director may re-
quire any savings and loan holding company, or persons con-
nected therewith if it is not a corporation, to execute and file a
prescribed form of irrevocable appointment of agent for service
of process.

‘(6) RELEASE FROM REGISTRATION.—The Director may at any
time, upon the Director’s own motion or upon application,
release a registered savings and loan holding company from any
registration theretofore made by such company, if the Director
determines that such company no longer has control of any
savings association.

“(c) HoLpinGc Company ACTIVITIES.—

“(1) PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.—Except as otherwise provided in
this subsection, no savings and loan holding company and no
subsidiary which is not a savings association shall—

“(A) engage in any activity or render any service for or on
behalf of a savings association subsidiary for the purpose or
with the effect of evading any law or regulation applicable
to such savings association;
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 321

“(B) commence any business activity, other than the
activities described in paragraph (2); or

“(C) continue any business activity, other than the activi-
ties described in pag. ey (2), after the end of the 2-year
period beginning on the date on which such company re-
ceived approval under subsection (e) of this section to
become a savings and loan holding company subject to the
limitations contained in this ampesnerenh.

“(2) EXEMPT ACTIVITIES.—The prohibitions of opereerephs
(B) and (C) of pe (1) shall not apply to the following
business activities of any savings and loan holding company or
any subsidiary (of such company) which is not a savings associa-
tion:

“(A) Furnishing or perfocmni management services for a
savings association subsidiary of such company.

“(B) Conducting an insurance agency or escrow business.

“(C) Holding, managing, or liquidating assets owned or
acquired from a savings association subsidiary of such com-

pany.

“D) Holding or managing properties used or occupied by
a savings association subsidiary of such company.

“(E) Acting as trustee under deed of trust.

“(F) Any other activity—

“(i) which the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, by regulation, has determined to be
permissible for bank holding companies under section
4(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, unless
the Director, by regulation, prohibits or limits any such
activity for savings and loan holding companies; or

“(ii) in which multiple savings and loan holding
companies were authorized (by regulation) to directly
ry mere on March 5, 1987.

‘(G) In the case of a savings and loan holding company,
purchasing, holding, or disposing of stock acquired in
connection with a qualified stock issuance if the purchase of
such stock by such savings and loan holding company is
approved by the Director pursuant to subsection (qX1XD).

(3) CERTAIN LIMITATIONS ON ACTIVITIES NOT APPLICABLE TO
CERTAIN HOLDING COMPANIES.—Notwithstanding paragraphs (4)
and (6) of this subsection, the limitations contained in para-
graphs (B) and (C) of paragraph (1) shall not apply to med
savings and loan holding company (or any subsidiary of suc
company) which controls—

(RA) only 1 savings association, if the savings association
subsidiary of such company is a qualified thrift lender (as
determined under subsection (m)); or

“(B) more than 1 savings association, if—

(i) all, or all but 1, of the savings association subsidi-
aries of such company were initially uired by the
company or by an individual who would be deemed to
control such company if such individual were a com-
pany—

“() pursuant to an acquisition under section
13(c) or 13(k) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
or section 408(m) of the National Housing Act; or

“(II) pursuant to an acquisition in which assist-
ance was continued to a savings association under
103 STAT. 322 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

—* 13(i) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act;
an

“(ii) all of the savings association subsidiaries of such
company are qualified thrift lenders (as determined
under subsection (m)).

“(4) PRIOR APPROVAL OF CERTAIN NEW ACTIVITIES REQUIRED.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—No savings and loan holding compan
and no subsidiary which is not a savings association shall
commence, either de novo or by an acquisition (in whole or
in part) of a going concern, any activity described in para-
graph (2\F\i) of this subsection without the prior approval
of the Director.

“(B) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED BY DIRECTOR.—In consider-
ing any application under subparagraph (A) by any savings
and loan holding company or any subsidiary of any such
company which is not a savings association, the Director
shall consider—

“(i) whether the performance of the activity de-
scribed in such application by the company or the
subsidiary can reasonably be expected to produce bene-
fits to the public (such as greater convenience,
increased competition, or gains in efficiency) that out-
weigh possible adverse effects of such activity (such as
undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair
competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound financial
practices);

“(ii) the managerial resources of the companies in-
volved; and

(iii) the adequacy of the financial resources, includ-
ing capital, of the companies involved.

“(C) DrRECTOR MAY DIFFERENTIATE BETWEEN NEW AND
ONGOING ACTIVviTIES.—In prescribing any regulation or
considering any application under this paragraph, the
Director may differentiate between activities commenced
de novo and activities commenced by the acquisition, in
whole or in part, of a going concern.

“(D) APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL BY ORDER.—The approval
or disapproval of any application under this paragraph by
the Director shall be made in an order issued by the
Director containing the reasons for such approval or dis-
approval.

“(5) GRACE PERIOD TO ACHIEVE COMPLIANCE.—If any savings
association referred to in paragraph (8) fails to maintain the
status of such association as a qualified thrift lender, the Direc-
tor may allow, for good cause shown, any company that controls
such association (or any ceegped! of such company which is
not a savings association) up to 3 years to comply with the
limitations contained in paragraph (1)(C).

(6) SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO CERTAIN COMPANIES
AFFECTED BY 1987 AMENDMENTS.—

“(A) EXCEPTION TO 2-YEAR GRACE PERIOD FOR ACHIEVING
COMPLIANCE.—Notwithstanding paragraph (1\C), any com-
pany which received approval under su tion (e) of this
section to —— control of a savings association between
March 5, 1987, and August 10, 1987, shall not continue any
business activity other than an activity described in para-
graph (2) after August 10, 1987.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 323

‘“(B) EXEMPTION FOR ACTIVITIES LAWFULLY ENGAGED IN
BEFORE MARCH 5, 1987.—Notwithstanding paragraph aXe
and subject to subparagraphs (C) and (D), any sa
loan holding company which ied ‘approval, vi
March 5, 19 , under subsection (e) of this section to acquire
control of a sa association may engage, directly or

porta any subsidi (other than a savings association
subsi of such company), in = hia in which such

Sumpeny or such subsidiary was lawfully engaged on such
“(C) TERMINATION OF SUBPARAGRAPH ~ EXEMPTION.—
The exemption provided under sub h (B) for activi-

ties engaged in raph: savings and loan hol company or
a subsidiary of such company (which is not a savings
association) which would otherwise be prohibited under
paragraph (1\(C) shall terminate with respect to such activi-
ties of such com toa) or subsidi upon the occurrence

(after August 10, ys = of the following:
“(i) The sa oan holding company acquires
control of a OF. rth additional sa association

(other than a savings association — pursuant to
section 13(c) or 130). of the Federal Deposit Insurance
— or section 406(f) or 408(m) of the National Housing

“(i) Any savings association su of the sa
and loan holding company fails to as a domestic
building and loan association under section 7701(aX(19)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
“(iii) The savings and loan holding company engages
in any business activity—
“() which is not described in paragraph (2); and
we in which it was not engaged on March 5,
“(iv) Any savings association subsidiary of the sav-
ings and loan holding company increases the number of
locations from which such savings association conducts
business after March 5, 1987 (other than an increase
which occurs in connection with a transaction under
section 13(c) or (k) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
or section 408(m) of the National Housing Act.
he Any savings association subsidiary of the savings
and loan holding company permits any overdraft
(including an intraday overdraft), or ee any such
overdraft in its account at a Federal Reserve bank, on
behalf of an affiliate, unless such overdraft is the result
of an inadvertent computer or accounting error that is
7" ond the control of both the savings association
and the affiliate.

“D) Orver BY DIRECTOR TO TERMINATE SUBPARAGRAPH (B)
activiry.—Any activity described in subparagraph (B) —
also be terminated by the Director, ule ully ae none A for
hearing, if the Director determines, having due regard for
the purposes of this title, that such action is necessary to
prevent conflicts of interest or unsound practices or is in
the public interest.

“(7) FOREIGN SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANY.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of this section, any savings and
103 STAT. 324

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

loan holding company organized under the laws of a foreign
country as of June 1, 1984 (including any subsidiary thereof
which is not a savings association), which controls a single
savings association on August 10, 1987, shall not be subject to
this subsection with respect to any activities of such holding
eee ae which are conducted exclusively in a foreign country.

(8) ON FOR BANK HOLDING COMPANIES.—Except for
paragraph (1A), this subsection shall not apply to any company
that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of
section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, or any of its
subsidiaries.

“(d) TRANSACTIONS WiTH AFFILIATES.—Transactions between any
subsidiary savings association of a savings and loan holding com-

y and any affiliate (of such savings association subsidiary) shall

subject to the limitations and prohibitions specified in section 11
of this Act.
“(e) ACQUISITIONS.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful for—

“(A) any savings and loan holding company directly or
indirectly, or through one or more subsidiaries or through
one or more transactions—

“(i) to acquire, except with the prior written approval
of the Director, the control of a savings association or a
savings and loan holding company, or to retain the
control of such an association or holding company ac-
quired or retained in violation of this section as here-
tofore or hereafter in effect;

“(ii) to acquire, except with the prior written ap-
proval of the Director, by the process of merger,
consolidation, or purchase of assets, another savings
association or a savings and loan holding company, or
all or substantially all of the assets of any such associa-
tion or holding company;

“(iii) to acquire, by purchase or otherwise, or to
retain more t 5 percent of the voting shares of a
savings association not a subsidiary, or of a savings and
loan holding company not a subsidiary, or in the case of
a multiple savings and loan holding company (other
than a company described in subsection (eS), to so
acquire or retain more than 5 percent of the voting
shares of any company not a subsidiary which is en-
gaged in any business activity other than the activities
specified in subsection (c)(2). This clause shall not apply
to shares of a savings association or of a savings and
loan holding company—

“(I) held as a loa fide fiduciary (whether with
or without the sole discretion to vote such shares);

“(II) held temporarily pursuant to an underwrit-
ing commitment in the normal course of an under-
writing business;

“(III) held in an account solely for trading pur-

poses,

“IV) over which no control is held other than
control of voting rights acquired in the normal
course of a Drany solicitation;

“(V) acqui in securing or collecting a debt
previously contracted in good faith, during the 2-
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

year period beginning on the date of such acquisi-
tion or for such additional time (not exceeding 3
years) as the Director may permit if the Director
determines that such an extension will not be
detrimental to the public interest;

“(VI) acquired under section 408(m) of the Na-
tional Housing Act or section 13(k) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act;

“(VID held by any insurance company, as de-
fined in section 2(a\(17) of the Investment Compan
Act of 1940, except as provided in paragrerh 6.

“(VIID acquired pursuant to a a ified stock
issuance if such purchase is approved by the Direc-
tor under subsection (q)(1D);

except that the aggregate amount of shares held under
this clause (other than under subclauses (I), (ID), (IID,
(IV), and (VI)) may not exceed 15 percent of all
outstanding shares or of the voting saved of a savings
association or savings and loan holding company; or

“(iv) to acquire the control of an uninsu institu-
tion, or to retain for more than one year after February
14, 1968, or from the date on which such control was
acquired, whichever is later, except that the Director
may upon application by such company extend such
one-year period from year to year, for an additional
period not exceeding 3 years, if the Director finds such
extension is warranted and is not detrimental to the
_ interest;

‘“(B) any other company, without the prior written ap-
proval of the Director, directly or indirectly, or through one
or more subsidiaries or through one or more transactions,
to acquire the contro] of one or more savings associations,
except that such srpere shall not be required in connec-
tion with the control of a savings association, (i) acquired by
devise under the terms of a will creating a trust which is
excluded from the definition of ‘savings and loan holding
company’ under subsection (a) of this section, or (ii) ac-
quired in connection with a reo ization in which a
person or group of persons, having control of a savings
association for more than 3 years, vests control of that
association in a newly formed holding company subject to
the control of the same person or group of persons. The
Director shall approve an acquisition of a savings associa-
tion under this subparagraph unless the Director finds the
financial and managerial resources and future pros of
the company and association involved to be such that the
acquisition would be detrimental to the association or the
insurance risk of the Savings Association Insurance Fund
or Bank Insurance Fund, and shall render a decision within
90 days after submission to the Director of the complete
record on the application.

‘(2) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.—The Director shall not ap-
prove any acquisition under subparagraph (A)(ji) or (A)(ii), or of
more than one savings association under subparagraph (B) of
paragraph (1) of this subsection, any acquisition of stock in
connection with a qualified stock issuance, any acquisition
under paragraph (4A), or any transaction under section 13(k)

103 STAT. 325
103 STAT. 326

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, except in accordance with
ph. every case, the Director shall take into
consideration the financial and managerial resources and
future prengpecnct of the company and association involved, the
og h of the acquisition on the association, the insurance risk to
avenge tion Insurance Fund or the Bank Insurance
Fond: the convenience and needs of the community to be
served, and shall render a decision within 90 days after submis-
sion to the Director of the complete record on the application.
Before approving any such acquisition, except a transaction
under section 13(k) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the
Director shall request from the Attorney General and consider
any report rendered within 30 days on the competitive factors
involved. The Director shall not approve any proposed acquisi-
tion—

“(A) which would result in a monopoly, or which would be
in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopo-
lize or to attempt to monopolize the savings and loan
business in any part of the United States, or

“(B) the effect of which in any section of the country may
be substantially to lessen competition, or tend to create a
monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in
restraint of trade, unless it finds that the anticompetitive
effects of the proposed acquisition are clearly outweighed in
the public interest by the probable effect of the acquisition
in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to
be served.

“(3) INTERSTATE AcQuisITIONs.—No acquisition shall be *
proved by the Director under this subsection which will res
in the es by any company, through one or more saad
aries or through one or more transactions, of a multiple savings
and loan hol company controlling savings associations in
more than one eae unless—

“(A) such company, or a savings association subsidiary of
such company, is authorized to acquire control of a savings
association subsidiary, or to operate a home or branch
office, in the additional State or States pursuant to section
13(k) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act;

“(B) such company controls a savings association subsidi-
ary which operated a home or branch office in the addi-
tional State or States as of March 5, 1987; or

“(C) the statutes of the State in which the savings associa-
tion to be acquired is located permit a savings association
chartered by such State to be acquired by a savings associa-
tion chartered by the State where the acquiring savings
association or savings and loan holding company is located
or by a holding company that controls such a State char-
tered savings association, and such statutes specifically
authorize such an acquisition by language to that effect and
not merely by implication.

“(4) ACQUISITIONS BY CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsection (hX2), any
director or officer of a savings and loan holding company, or
any individual who owns, controls, or holds with power to
vote (or holds proxies representing) more than 25 percent of
the voting shares of such holding company, may acquire
control of any savings association not a subsidiary of such
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 327

savings and loan holding company with the prior written

approval of the Director.

“(B) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN HOLDING COMPANIES.—If any
individual referred to in subparagraph (A) controls more
than 1 savings and loan holding company or more than 1
savings association, any savings and loan holding compan
controlled by such individual shall be subject to the activi-
ties limitations contained in subsection (c) to the same
extent such limitations apply to multiple savings and loan
holding companies, unless all or all but 1 of the savings
associations (including any institution deemed to be a sav-
ings association under subsection (1) of this section) con-
trolled directly or indirectly by such individual was ac-
quired pursuant to an acquisition described in subclause (1)
or (II) of subsection (cX3)(BXi.

“(5) ACQUISITIONS PURSUANT TO CERTAIN SECURITY INTERESTS.—
This subsection and subsection (c\(2) of this section do not apply
to any savings and loan holding company which acquired the
control of a savings association or of a savings and loan holding
company pursuant to a pledge or hypothecation to secure a
loan, or in connection with the liquidation of a loan, made in the
ordinary course of business. It shall be unlawful for any such
company to retain such control for more than one year after
February 14, 1968, or from the date on which such control was
acquired, whichever is later, except that the Director may upon
application by such company extend such one-year period from
year to year, for an additional period not exceeding 3 years, if
the Director finds such extension is warranted and would not be
detrimental to the public interest.

“(6) SHARES HELD BY INSURANCE AFFILIATES.—Shares described
in clause (iii(VID of paragraph (1)(A) shall not be excluded for
purposes of clause (iii) of such paragraph if—

“(A) all shares held under such clause (iii)(VII) by all
insurance company affiliates of such savings association or
savings and loan holding company in the aggregate exceed
5 percent of all outstanding shares or of the voting power of
the savings association or savings and loan holding com-
pany or

‘“(B) such shares are acquired or retained with a view to

acquiring, exercising, or transferring control of the savings
association or savings and loan holding company.

“(f) DECLARATION OF DivipEND.—Every subsidiary savings associa-
tion of a savings and loan holding company shall give the Director
not less than 30 days’ advance notice of the proposed declaration by
its directors of any dividend on its guaranty, permanent, or other
nonwithdrawable stock. Such notice period shall commence to run
from the date of receipt of such notice by the Director. Any such
dividend declared within such period, or without the giving of such
notice to the Director, shall be invalid and shall confer no rights or
benefits upon the holder of any such stock.

“(g) ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.—

‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director is authorized to issue such
regulations and orders as the Director deems necessary or appro-
priate to enable the Director to administer and carry out the
purposes of this section, and to require compliance therewith and
prevent evasions thereof.
103 STAT. 328

Records.

District of
Columbia.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(2) INVESTIGATIONS.—The Director may make such investiga-
tions as the Director deems necessary or appropriate to deter-
mine whether the provisions of this section, and regulations and
orders thereunder, are being and have been complied with by
savings and loan holding companies and subsidiaries and affili-
ates thereof. For the purpose of any investigation under this
section, the Director may administer oaths and affirmations,
se is a take evidence, and require the production of any
books, papers, correspondence, memorandums, or other records
which may be relevant or material to the inquiry. The attend-
ance of witnesses and the production of any such records may be
required from any place in any State. The Director may apply to
the United States district court for the judicial district (or the
United States court in any territory) in which any witness or
company subpenaed resides or carries on business, for enforce-
ment of any subpena issued pursuant to this paragraph, and
such courts shall have jurisdiction and power to order and
require compliance.

“(3) Procrrpincs.—(A) In any proceeding under subsection
(aX2\D) or under paragraph (5) of this section, the Director may
administer oaths and affirmations, take or cause to be taken
depositions, and issue subpenas. The Director may make regula-
tions with respect to any such proceedings. The attendance of
witnesses and the production of documents provided for in this
paragraph may be required from any place in any State or in
any territory at any designated place where such proceeding is
being conducted. Any party to such proceedings may apply to
the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, or
the United States district court for the judicial district or the
United States court in any territory in which such proceeding is
being conducted, or where the witness resides or carries on
business, for enforcement of any subpena issued pursuant to
this paragraph, and such courts shall have jurisdiction and
power to order and require compliance therewith. Witnesses
subpenaed under this section shall be paid the same fees and
mileage that are paid witnesses in the district courts of the
United States.

“(B) Any hearing provided for in subsection (a)(2)(D) or under
paragraph (5) of this section shall be held in the Federal judicial
district or in the territory in which the principal office of the
association or other company is located unless the party af-
forded the hearing consents to another place, and shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of title
5, United States Code.

(4) INJUNCTIONS.—Whenever it appears to the Director that
any person is engaged or has engaged or is about to engage in
any acts or practices which constitute or will constitute a
violation of the provisions of this section or of any regulation or
order thereunder, the Director may bring an action in the
proper United States district court, or the United States court of
any territory or other place subject to the jurisdiction of the
United States, to enjoin such acts or practices, to enforce
compliance with this section or any regulation or order, or to
require the divestiture of any acquisition in violation of this
section, or for any combination of the foregoing, and such courts
shall have jurisdiction of such actions. Upon a proper showing
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 329

an injunction, decree, restraining order, order of divestiture, or
other appropriate order shall be granted without bond.

“(5) CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.—({A) Notwithstanding any
other provision of this section, the Director may, whenever the
Director has reasonable cause to believe that the continuation
by a savings and loan holding company of any activity or of
ownership or control of any of its noninsured subsidiaries con-
stitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or
stability of a savings and loan holding company’s subsidiary
savings association and is inconsistent with the sound operation
of a savings association or with the purposes of this section or
section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, order the sav-
ings and loan holding company or any of its subsidiaries, after
due notice and opportunity for hearing, to terminate such
activities or to terminate (within 120 days or such longer period
as the Director directs in unusual circumstances) its ownership
or control of any such noninsured subsidiary either by sale or by
distribution of the shares of the subsidiary to the shareholders
of the savings and loan holding company. Such distribution
shall be pro rata with respect to all of the shareholders of the
distributing savings and loan holding company, and the holding
company shall not make any charge to its shareholders arising
out of such a distribution.

“(B) The Director may in the Director's discretion apply to the
United States district court within the jurisdiction of which the
smi office of the company is located, for the enforcement of
any effective and outstanding order issued under this section,
and such court shall have jurisdiction and power to order and
require compliance therewith. Except as provided in subsection
(j), no court shall have jurisdiction to affect by injunction or
otherwise the issuance or enforcement of any notice or order
under this section, or to review, modify, suspend, terminate, or
set aside any such notice or order.

“(h) Pronisrrep Acts.—It shall be unlawful for—

“(1) any savings and loan holding company or subsidiary
thereof, or any eis r, officer, employee, or perm owning,
controlling, or holding with power to vote, or holding proxies
representing, more than 25 percent of the voting shares, of such
holding company or subsidiary, to hold, solicit, or exercise any
proxies in respect of any voting rights in a savings association
which is a mutual association;

“(2) any director or officer of a savings and loan holding
company, or any individual who owns, controls, or holds with
power to vote (or holds proxies representing) more than 25
percent of the voting shares of such holding company, to acquire
control of any savings association not a subsidiary of such
savings and loan holding company, unless such acquisition is
approved by the Director pursuant to subsection (e)(4); or

‘(3) any individual, except with the prior approval of the
Director, to serve or act as a director, officer, or trustee of, or
become a partner in, any savings and loan holding company
after having been convicted of any criminal offense involving
dishonesty or breach of trust.

“(i) PENALTIES.—

“(1) CRIMINAL PENALTIES.—(A) Whoever knowingly violates
any provision of this section, and any company which violates
any regulation or order issued by the Director pursuant thereto,
103 STAT. 330

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

shall be fined not more than $100,000 per day for each day
during which the violation continues.

“(B) Any individual who knowingly violates any provision of
this section shall be fined not more than $100,000 per day for
each day during which the violation continues, imprisoned not
more than | year, or both.

“(C) Whoever knowingly violates any provision of this section
with intent to deceive, to defraud, or to profit significantly shall
be fined not more than $1,000,000 per day for each day durin
which the violation continues, imprisoned not more than 3
years, or both.

“(2) FALSE ENTRIES.—Every director, officer, partner, trustee,
agent, or employee of a savings and loan holding company shall
be subject to the same penalties for false entries in any book,
report, or statement of such savings and loan holding company
as are applicable to officers, agents, and employees of a savings
association the accounts of which are insured by the Corpora-
tion for false entries in any books, reports, or statements of such
association under section 1006 of title 18, United States Code.

“(3) ClviL MONEY PENALTY.—

“(A) Penatty.—Any company which violates, and any
person who participates in a violation of, any provision of
this section, or any regulation or order issued pursuant
thereto, shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more
than $25,000 for each day during which such violation
continues.

“(B) AssEssMENT.—Any penalty imposed under subpara-
graph (A) may be assessed and collected by the Director in
the manner provided in subparagraphs (E), (F), (G), and (D
of section 8(i)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act for
penalties im (under such section) and any such assess-
ment shall ae to the provisions of such section.

‘(C) Hearinc.—The company or other person against
whom any civil penalty is assessed under this paragraph
shall be afforded a hearing if such company or person
submits a request for such hearing within 20 days after the
issuance of the notice of assessment. Section &(h) of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act shall apply to any proceed-
ing under this paragraph.

(D) DispuRsEMENT.—AlIl penalties collected under
authority of this paragraph shall be deposited into the
ae

‘“(E) VIOLATE DEFINED.—For purposes of this section, the
term ‘violate’ includes any action (alone or with another or
others) for or toward causing, bringing about, participating
in, counseling, or aiding or abetting a violation.

“(F) REGULATIONS.—The Director shall prescribe regula-
tions establishing such procedures as may be necessary to
carry out this paragraph.

“(4) NOTICE UNDER THIS SECTION AFTER SEPARATION FROM SERV-
ice.—The resignation, termination of employment or participa-
tion, or separation of an institution-affiliated party (within the
meaning of section 3(u) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act)
with respect to a savings and loan holding company or subsidi-
ary thereof (including a separation caused by the deregistration
of such a company or such a subsidiary) shall not affect the
jurisdiction and authority of the Director to issue any notice
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

and proceed under this section against any such party, if such
notice is served before the end of the 6-year period beginning on
the date such party ceased to be such a party with respect to
such holding company or its subsidiary (whether such date
occurs before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this
paragraph).

“(j) JupicIAL Review.—Any party aggrieved by an order of the
Director under this section may obtain a review of such order by
filing in the court of appeals of the United States for the circuit in
which the principal office of such party is located, or in the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, within
30 days after the date of service of such order, a written petition
praying that the order of the Director be modified, terminated, or
set aside. A copy of the petition shall be forthwith transmitted by
the clerk of the court to the cage and thereupon the Director
shall file in the court the record in the proceeding, as provided in
section 2112 of title 28, United States Code. Upon the filing of such
petition, such court shall have jurisdiction, which upon the filing of
the record shall be exclusive, to affirm, modify, terminate, or set
aside, in whole or in part, the order of the Director. Review ‘of such
proceedings shall be had as provided in chapter 7 of title 5, United
States Code. The judgment and decree of the court shall be final,
except that the same shall be subject to review by the Supreme
Court upon certiorari as provided in section 1254 of title 28, United
States Code.

“(k) Savincs CLause.—Nothing contained in this section, other
than any transaction approved under subsection (e)(2) of this section
or section 13 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, shall be inter-
preted or construed as approving any act, action, or conduct which is
or has been or may be in violation of existing law, nor shall
anything herein contained constitute a defense to any action, suit,
or proceeding pending or hereafter instituted on account of any act,
action, or conduct in violation of the antitrust laws.

“() TREATMENT oF FDIC Insurep State Savincs BANKS AND
COOPERATIVE BANKS AS SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, a savings bank (as defined in section 3(g) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act) and a cooperative bank that is an in-
sured bank (as defined in section 3(h) of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act) upon application shall be deemed to be a savings
association for the purpose of this section, if the Director deter-
mines that such bank is a qualified thrift lender (as determined
under subsection (m)).

“(2) FAILURE TO MAINTAIN QUALIFIED THRIFT LENDER STATUS.—
If any savings bank which is deemed to be a savings association
under paragraph (1) subsequently fails to maintain its status as
a qualified thrift lender, as determined by the Director, such
bank may not thereafter be a qualified thrift lender for a period
of 5 years.

“(m) QUALIFIED THRIFT LENDER TEST.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and
(6), an savings association shall have the status of a qualified
thrift lender if—

“(A) the qualified thrift investments of such savin
association equal or exceed 60 percent of the total tangible
assets of such association; and

103 STAT. 331

District of
Columbia.
103 STAT. 332 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(B) the qualified thrift investments of such savings
association continue to equal or exceed 60 percent of the
total tangible assets of such association on an average basis
in 3 out of every 4 quarters and 2 out of every 3 years.

(2) EXCEPTIONS GRANTED BY DIRECTOR.—Notwithstanding
paragraph (1), the Director may grant such temporary and
limited exceptions from the minimum actual thrift investment
percentage requirement contained in such paragraph as the
Director deems necessary if—

“(A) the Director determines that extraordinary cir-
cumstances exist, such as when the effects of high interest
rates reduce mortgage demand to such a degree that an
insufficient opportunity exists for a savings association to
meet such investment requirements; or

“(B) the Director determines that—

“(i) the grant of any such exception will significantly
facilitate an acquisition under section 13(c) or 13(k) of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act;

“(ii) the acquired association will comply with the
transition requirements of paragraph (6\B), as if the
date of the exemption were the starting date for the
transition period described in that paragraph; and

“(iii) the Director determines that the exemption will
not have an undue adverse effect on competing savings
associations in the relevant market and will further
the purposes of this subsection.

“(3) FAILURE TO BECOME AND REMAIN A QUALIFIED THRIFT
LENDER.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph
(D), a savings association that fails to become or remain a
qualified thrift lender shall either become one or more
banks (other than a savings bank), or be subject to subpara-
graph (B).

‘“(B) RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS
THAT ARE NOT QUALIFIED THRIFT LENDERS.—

“(j) RESTRICTIONS EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY.—The fol-
lowing restrictions shall apply immediately to a sav-
ings association after the date on which the savings
association should have become or ceases to be a quali-
fied thrift lender:

“() Activities.—The savings association shall
not make any new investment (including an invest-
ment in a subsidiary) or engage, directly or in-
directly, in any other new activity unless that
investment or activity would be permissible for the
savings association if it were a national bank, and
is also permissible for the savings association as a
savings association.

(II) BRANCHING.—The savings association shall
not establish any new branch office at any location
at which a national bank located in the savings
association’s home State may not establish a
branch office. For purposes of this subclause, a
savings association’s home State is the State in
which the savings association’s total deposits were
largest on the date on which the savings associa-
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 333

tion should have become or ceased to be a qualified
thrift lender.

“(II) Apvancres.—The savings association shall
not be eligible to obtain new advances from any
Federal home loan bank.

“(IV) Drvipenps.—The savings association shall
be subject to all statutes and regulations governing
the payment of dividends by a national bank in the
same manner and to the same extent as if the
savings association were a national bank.

“(ji) ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS EFFECTIVE AFTER THREE
YEARS.—The following additional restrictions shall
apply to a a association beginning 3 years after

e date on which the savings association should have
become or ceases to be a qualified thrift lender:

“() Activitres.—The savings association shall
not retain any investment (including an invest-
ment in any subsidiary) or engage, directly or in-
directly, in any activity unless that investment or
activity would be permissible for the savings
association if it were a national bank, and is also
permissible for the savings association as a savings
association.

“(1) Apvances.—The savings association shall
repay any outstanding advances from any Federal
home loan bank as promptly as can be prudently
done consistent with the safe and sound operation
of the savings association.

“(C) HoLpDING COMPANY REGULATION.—Any company that
controls a savings association that is subject to any provi-
sion of subpar ph (B) shall, within one year after the
date on which the savings association should have become
or ceases to be a qualified thrift lender, register as and be
deemed to be a bank holding company subject to all of the
provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, sec-
tion 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and other
statutes applicable to bank holding companies, in the same
manner and to the same extent as if the company were a
bank holding company and the savings association were a
bank, as those terms are defined in the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956.

“(D) REQUALIFICATION.—A savings association that should
have become or ceases to be a qualified thrift lender shall
not be subject to pene, so (B) or (C) if the savings
association mes a qualified thrift lender by meeting the
qualified thrift lender requirement in paragraph (1) on an
average basis in 3 out of every 4 quarters and 2 out of every
3 years and thereafter remains a qualified thrift lender. If

savings association (or any savings association that
acquired all or substantially all of its assets from that
savi association) at any time thereafter ceases to be a
waalttied thrift lender, it shall immediately be subject to all
provisions of tc. (B) and (C) as if all the periods
described in subparagraphs (BXii) and (C) had expired.

“(E) DeposiT INSURANCE ASSESSMENTS.—Any bank char-
tered as a result of the requirements of this section shall be
obligated until December 31, 1993, to pay to the Savings
108 STAT. 334

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

Association Insurance Fund the assessments assessed on
savings associations under the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act. Such association shall also be assessed, on the date of
its change of status from a Savings Association Insurance
Fund member, the exit fee and entrance fee provided in
section 5(d) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Such
institution shall not be obligated to pay the assessments
— on banks under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
until—
“(ij) December 31, 1993, or
“(ii) the institution’s change of status from a Savings
Association Insurance fund member to a Bank Insur-
ance Fund member,
whichever is later.

“(F) SPECIAL RULE.—This paragraph shall not apply to
savings associations headquartered and operating primarily
in Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands.

“(G) EXEMPTION FOR CERTAIN FEDERAL SAVINGS ASSOCIA-
TIONS.—This paragraph shall not apply to any Federal sav-
ings association in existence as a Federal savings
association on the date of enactment of the Financial Insti-
tutions Reform Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989—

“(i) that was chartered before October 15, 1982, as a
savings bank or a cooperative bank under State law; or

“(ii) that acquired its principal assets from an associa-
tion that was chartered before October 15, 1982, as a
savings bank or a cooperative bank under State law.

“(H) No CIRCUMVENTION OF EXIT MORATORIUM.—Subpara-
graph (A) of this paragraph shall not be construed as
permitting any insured depository institution to engage in
any conversion transaction prohibited under section 5(d) of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.

“() EFFECTIVE DATE.—This ph shall take effect
upon the expiration of 1 year r the date of enactment of
the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforce-
ment Act of 1989.

“(4) DeFtniTions.—For purposes of this subsection—

“(A) ACTUAL THRIFT INVESTMENT PERCENTAGE.—The term
‘actual thrift investment percentage’ means the percentage
determined by dividing—

“(j) the amount of the qualified thrift investments of
a savings association, by

“(ii) the total amount of tangible assets of such sav-
ings association.

“(B) QUALIFIED THRIFT INVESTMENTS.—The term ‘qualified
thrift investments’ means, with respect to any savings
association, the sum of— ;

“(i) the aggregate amount of loans, equity positions,
or securities held by the savings association (or any
subsidiary of such association) which are related to
domestic residential real estate or manufactured hous-
ing;

Fai) the value of property used by such association or

subsidiary in the conduct of the business of such
association or subsidiary;

“(iii) subject to paragraph (5), the liquid assets of the
type required to be maintained under this Act; and

‘(iv) subject to paragraph (5), 50 percent of the dollar
amount of the residential mortgage loans originated by
such savings association or subsidiary and sold within
90 days of origination.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 335

“(5) LIMITATION ON TREATMENT OF CERTAIN ASSETS AS THRIFT
INVESTMENTS.—The aggregate amount of the assets described in
clauses (iii) and (iv) of par: ph (4B) which may be taken into
account in determining the amount of the qualified thrift
investments of any savings association shall not exceed the
amount which is equal to 10 percent of the tangible assets of
such association.

“(6) TRANSITIONAL RULE FOR CERTAIN SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If any Federal savings association in
existence as a Federal savings association on the date of
enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989—

“(i) that was chartered as a savings bank or a Co-
? gph bank under State law before October 15,

;or

“(ii) that acquired its principal assets from an
association that was chartered before October 15, 1982,
= a savings bank or a cooperative bank under State

Ww,

meets the requirements of subparagraph (B), such savings
association shall be treated as a qualified thrift lender
during the 6-year period beginning on August 10, 1989.

“(B) SuBPARAGRAPH (B) REQUIREMENTS.—A _ savings
association meets the requirements of this subparagraph if,
in the determination of the Director—

“(i) the actual thrift investment percentage of such
association does not, after the date of enactment of the
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforce-
ment Act of 1989, decrease below the actual thrift
Spe percentage of such association on July 15,

;an

“(ii) the amount by which—

“(I) the actual thrift investment percentage of
such association at the end of each period described
in the following table, exceeds

“(ID the actual thrift investment percentage of
such association on July 15, 1989,

is equal to or greater than the applicable percentage (as
determined under the following table) of the amount by
which 70 percent exceeds the actual thrift investment
percentage of such association on such date of enact-

ment:
“For the following The applicable
peried: percentage is:
Prior to July 1, 1991 25 percent
July 1, 1991-December 31, 1992 50 percent
Jan 1, 1993-June 30, 1994 75 percent
The r 100 percent

“(C) For purposes of this paragraph, the actual thrift
investment percentage of an association on July 15, 1989,
shall be determined by applying the definition of ‘actual
be investment percentage’ that takes effect on July 1,

“(n) Tyinc Restrictions.—A savings and loan holding company
and any of its affiliates shall be subject to section 5(q) and regula-
tions prescribed under such section, in connection with transactions
involving the products or services of such company or affiliate and
those of an affiliated savings association as if such company or
affiliate were a savings association.

“(o) MuTUAL HoLpING CoMPANIES.—

“(1) In GENERAL.—A savings association operating in mutual
form may reorganize so as to become a holding company by—
103 STAT. 336

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(A) chartering an interim savings association, the stock
of which is to be wholly owned, except as otherwise pro-
vided in this section, by the mutual association; and

“(B) transferring the substantial part of its assets and
liabilities, including all of its insured liabilities, to the
interim savings association.

“(2) DIRECTORS AND CERTAIN ACCOUNT HOLDERS’ APPROVAL OF
PLAN REQUIRED.—A reorganization is not authorized under this
subsection unless—

“(A) a plan providing for such reorganization has been
approved by a majority of the board of directors of the
mutual savings association; and

“(B) in the case of an association in which holders of
accounts and obligors exercise voting rights, such plan has
been submitted to and approved by a Epayority of such
individuals at a meeting held at the call of the directors in
accordance with the procedures prescribed by the associa-
tion’s charter and bylaws.

“(3) NOTICE TO THE DIRECTOR; DISAPPROVAL PERIOD.—

“(A) NorTicE REQUIRED.—At least 60 days prior to taking
any action described in paragraph (1), a savings association
seeking to establish a mutual holding company shall pro-
vide written notice to the Director. The notice shall contain
such relevant information as the Director shall require by
regulation or by specific request in connection with any
particular notice.

‘“(B) TRANSACTION ALLOWED IF NOT DISAPPROVED.— Unless
the Director within such 60-day notice period disapproves
the proposed holding company formation, or extends for
another 30 days the period during which such disapproval
may be issued, the savings association providing such notice
may proceed with the transaction, if the requirements of
pagogreph (2) have been met.

“(C) GROUNDS FOR DISAPPROVAL.—The Director may dis-
approve any pro holding company formation only if—

“(i) such disapproval is necessary to prevent unsafe
or unsound practices;

“(ii) the financial or management resources of the
savings association involved warrant disapproval;

“(iii) the savings association fails to furnish the
information required under subparagraph (A); or

“(iv) the savings association fails to comply with the
requirement of paragraph (2).

NTION OF CAPITAL ASSETS.—In connection with
the transaction described in paragraph (1), a_ savings
association may, subject to the approval of the Director,
retain capital assets at the holding company level to the
extent that such capital exceeds the association’s capital
requirement established by the Director pursuant to sec-
tions 5 (s) and (t) of this Act.

(4) OWNERSHIP.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Persons having ownership rights in
the mutual association pursuant to section 5(b)\(1\B) of this
Act or State law shall have the same ownership rights with
respect to the mutual holding company.

“(B) HOLDERS OF CERTAIN ACCOUNTS.—Holders of savings,
demand or other accounts of—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 337

“(ij) a savings association chartered as part of a trans-
action described in paragraph (1); or
“(ii) a mutual savings association acquired pursuant
to paragraph (5)(B),
shall have the same ownership rights with respect to the
mutual holding company as persons described in subpara-
ph (A) of this paragraph.

“(5) PERMITTED ACTIVITIES.—A mutual holding company may
engage only in the following activities:

“(A) Investing in the stock of a savings association.

“(B) Acquiring a mutual association through the merger
of such association into a savings association subsidiary of
such holding com or an interim savings association
subsidiary of such holding company.

“(C) Subject to paragraph (6), merging with or acquiring
another holding company, one of whose subsidiaries is a
savings association.

“(D) Investing in a corporation the capital stock of which
is available for purchase by a savings association under
Federal law or under the law of any State where the
subsidiary savings association or associations have their
home offices.

“(E) Engaging in the activities described in subsection
(c\2), except subparagraph (B).

“(6) LIMITATIONS ON CERTAIN ACTIVITIES OF ACQUIRED HOLDING
COMPANIES.—

“(A) New activities.—If a mutual holding company ac-
quires or merges with another holding company under
paragraph (5\(C), the holding company acquired or the hold-
ing company resulting from such merger or acquisition may
oy invest in assets and engage in activities which are
authorized under paragraph (5).

“(B) GRACE PERIOD FOR DIVESTING PROHIBITED ASSETS OR
DISCONTINUING PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.—Not later than 2
years following a merger or acquisition described in para-
graph (5\C), the acquired holding company or the holding
company resulting from such merger or acquisition shall—

“(i) dispose of any asset which is an asset in which a
mutual holding company may not invest under para-
graph (5); and

“(ii) cease any activity which is an activity in which a
mutual holding company may not engage under para-
graph (5).

“(7) REGULATION.—A mutual holding rapist shall be char-
tered by the Director and shall be subject to such regulations as
the Director may prescribe. Unless the context otherwise re-
quires, a mutual holding company shall be subject to the other
requirements of this section regarding regulation of holding
companies.

“(8) CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT.—

“(A) PLEDGE OF STOCK OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATION SUBSIDI-
ARY.—This section shall not prohibit a mutual holding
company from pledging all or a portion of the stock of a
Savings association chartered as part of a transaction de-
scribed in paragraph (1) to raise capital for such savings
association.
103 STAT. 338

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(B) ISSUANCE OF NONVOTING SHARES.—This section shall
not prohibit a savi association chartered as part of a
transaction descri in paragraph (1) from issuing any
nonvoting shares or less than 50 percent of the voting
shares of such association to any person other than the
mutual holding company.

“(9) INSOLVENCY AND LIQUIDATION.—
“(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any provision of law,
upon—
“(i) the default of an any savings association—
“(I) the stock of which is owned by any mutual
holding company; and
“(I which was chartered in a transaction de-
scribed in paragraph (1);
“(ii) the default of a mutual holding vane gaa hoes or
“(iii) a foreclosure on a pledge by a mutual holdi
company described in paragraph (8A),
a trustee shall be Spence receiver of such mutual holding
company and such trustee shall have the authority to
liquidate the assets of, and satisfy the liabilities of, such
mutual holding company pursuant to title 11, United States

Code.
“(B) DisTRIBUTION OF NET PROCEEDS.—Except as provided
in sub aph (C), the net proceeds of any liquidation of

any mutual holding company oreo to subparagraph (A)
shall be transferred to poe who hold ownership in-
terests i in such mutual holding company.

“(C) RECOVERY BY CORPORATION.—If the Corporation
incurs a loss as a result of the default of any savings
association subsidiary of a mutual holding company which
is te pe ted pursuant to subparagraph (A), the Corporation

Il succeed to the ownership interests of ‘the depositors of
wack savings association in the mutual holding company, to
the extent of the Corporation’s loss.

“(10) Derinitions.—For purposes of this subsection—

“(A) MUTUAL HOLDING CoMPANY.—The term ‘mutual
epee company’ means a corporation organized as a hold-

Bre under this subsection.

a:) UTUAL ASSOCIATION.—The term ‘mutual associa-
tion’ means a savings association which is operating in
mutual form.

“(C) Derautt.—The term ‘default’ means an adjudication
or other official determination of a court of competent
jurisdiction or other public authority pursuant to which a
conservator, receiver, or other legal custodian is appointed.

“(p) HoLpInG Company Activities CoNnsTITUTING SERIOUS RISK TO
Sussip1ary SAvinGs AssociaTION.—

“(1) DETERMINATION AND IMPOSITION OF RESTRICTIONS.—If the
Director determines that there is reasonable cause to neers
that the continuation by a savings and loan holding compan resiety,
any activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial
soundness, or stability of a savings and loan holding unnand
subsidiary savings association, the Director may impose ml
restrictions as the Director determines to be necessary to ad-
dress such risk. Such restrictions shall be issued in the form of a
radipioabte to the holding company and any of its subsidiaries,
imiting—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 339

“(A) the payment of dividends by the savings association;

“(B) transactions between the savings association, the
— g company, and the subsidiaries or affiliates of either;
an

“(C) any activities of the savings association that might
create a serious risk that the liabilities of the holding
company and its other affiliates may be imposed on the
savings association.

Such directive shall be effective as a cease and desist order that
has become final.

“(2) REVIEW OF DIRECTIVE.—

“(A) ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.—After a directive referred
to in paragraph (1) is issued, the rahe and loan holding
company, or any subsidiary of such holding company sub-
ject to the directive, may object and present in writing its
reasons why the directive should be modified or rescinded.
Unless within 10 days after receipt of such response the
Director affirms, modifies, or rescinds the directive, such
directive shall automatically lapse.

‘(B) JupiciaL REView.—If the Director affirms or modi- District of
fies a directive pursuant to subparagraph (A), any affected Columbia.
ooted may immediately thereafter petition the United

tates district court for the district in which the savings
and loan holding company has its main office or in the
United States District Court for the District of Columbia to
stay, modify, terminate or set aside the directive. Upon a
showing of extraordinary cause, the savi and loan hold-
ing company, or any subsidiary of such holding company
subject to a directive, may petition a United States district
court for relief without first pursuing or exhausting the
administrative remedies set forth in this paragraph.

“(q) QuauiFiep Stock IssuANCE BY UNDERCAPITALIZED SAVINGS

IATIONS OR HOLDING COMPANIES.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this section, any issue of
shares of stock shall be treated as a qualified stock issuance if
the following conditions are met:

‘“(A) The shares of stock are issued by—

“(i) an undercapitalized savings association; or

“(ii) a —— loan holding company which is not
a bank holding company but which controls an
undercapitalized savings association if, at the time of
issuance, the savings and loan holding es is
legally obligated to contribute the net proceeds from

e issuance of such stock to the capital of an
undercapitalized savings association subsidiary of such
holding company.

‘“(B) All shares of stock issued consist of previously
unissued stock or treasury shares.

“(C) All shares of stock issued are purchased by a savings
and loan holding company that is registered, as of the date
of purchase, with the Di r in accordance with the provi-
sions of subsection (b)(1) of this section.

“(D) Subject to paragraph (2), the Director approved the
purchase of the shares of stock by the acquiring savings and
loan holding company.

“(E) The entire consideration for the stock issued is paid
in cash by the acquiring savings and loan holding company.
103 STAT. 340

PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989

“(F) At the time of the stock issuance, each savings
association subsidiary of the acquiring savings and loan
holding company (other than an association acquired in a
transaction pursuant to subsection (c) or (k) of section 13 of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or section 408(m) of the
National Housing Act) has capital (after deducting any
subordinated debt, intangible assets, and deferred,
unamortized gains or losses) of not less than 6% percent of
the total assets of such savings association.

‘(G) Immediately after the stock issuance, the acquiring
savings and loan holding company holds not more than 15
percent of the outstanding voting stock of the issuing
undercapitalized savings association or savings and loan
holding company.

“(H) Not more than one of the directors of the issuing
association or company is an officer, director, employee, or
other representative of the acquiring company or any of its
affiliates.

“(I) Transactions between the savings association or sav-
ings and loan holding company that issues the shares
pursuant to this section and the acquiring company and
any of La affiliates shall be subject to the provisions of
section 11.

“(2) APPROVAL OF ACQUISITIONS.—

“(A) ADDITIONAL CAPITAL COMMITMENTS NOT REQUIRED.—
The Director shall not disapprove any application for the
purchase of stock in connection with a qualified stock issu-
ance on the grounds that the acquiring savings and loan
holding company has failed to undertake to make subse-
quent additional capital contributions to maintain the cap-
ital of the ing i pear savings association at or above
the minimum level required by the Director or any other
Federal agency having jurisdiction.

“(B) OTHER cONDITIONS.—Notwithstanding subsection
(a4), the Director may impose such conditions on any
approval of an application for the purchase of stock in
connection with a qualified stock issuance as the Director
determines to be appropriate, including—

“(j) a requirement that any savings association
subsidiary of the acquiring savings and loan holding
company limit dividends paid to such holding company
for such period of time as the Director may require; and

(ii) such other conditions as the Director deems
necessary or appropriate to prevent evasions of this
section.

“(C) APPLICATION DEEMED APPROVED IF NOT DISAPPROVED
WITHIN 90 DAYs.—An application for approval of a purchase
of stock in connection with a qualified stock issuance shall
be deemed to have been approved by the Director if such
application has not been disapproved by the Director before
the end of the 90-day period beginning on the date such
application has been deemed sufficient under regulations
issued by the Director.

(3) No LIMITATION ON CLASS OF STOCK ISSUED.—The shares of
stock issued in connection with a qualified stock issuance may
be shares of any class.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 341

“(4) UNDERCAPITALIZED SAVINGS ASSOCIATION DEFINED.—For
purposes of this subsection, the term ‘undercapitalized savings
association’ means any savings association—

“(A) the assets of which exceed the liabilities of such
association; and

“(B) which does not comply with one or more of the
capital standards in effect under section 5(t).

“(r) PENALTY FOR FarturRE To ProvipE TIMELY AND ACCURATE
REPORTS.—

“(1) First trer.—Any savings and loan holding company, and
any subsidiary of such holding company, which—

‘(A) maintains procedures reasonably adapted to avoid
any inadvertent and unintentional error and, as a result of
such an error—

“(i) fails to submit or publish any report or informa-
tion required under this section or 2 err
prescribed by the Director, within the period of time
specified by the Director; or

“(ii) submits or publishes any false or misleading
report or information; or

“(B) inadvertently transmits or publishes any report
which is minimally late,

shall be subject to a penalty of not more than $2,000 for each

day during which such failure continues or such false or mis-

leading information is not corrected. Such holding company or

subsidiary shall have the burden of proving by a preponderence

of the evidence that an error was inadvertent and unintentional

ao that a report was inadvertently transmitted or published
te

“(2) SEcoND TrER.—Any savings and loan holding company,
and any subsidiary of such holding company, which—

‘(A) fails to submit or publish any report or information
required under this section or under regulations Pag alpen
by the Director, within the period of time specified by the
Director; or

“(B) submits or publishes any false or misleading report
or information,

in a manner not described in paragraph (1) shall be subject to a
penalty of not more than $20,000 for each day during which
such failure continues or such false or misleading information is
not corrected.

“(3) TH1rD TreER.—If any savings and loan holding company or
any subsidiary of such a holding company knowingly or with
reckless disregard for the accuracy of any information or report
described in paragraph (2) submits or publishes any false or
misleading report or information, the Director may assess a
penalty of not more than $1,000,000 or 1 percent of total assets
of such company or magiray f whichever is less, per day for
each day during which such failure continues or such false or
sag ci th is not te eed - 5

™ ESSMENT.—Any penalty im under paragraph (1),
(2), or (3) shall be cietaned ¢ and collected by the Director i the
manner provided in subparagraphs (EB), (F), (G), and (I) of section
8(iX2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (for penalties im-
posed under such section) and any such assessment (including
the determination of the amount of the penalty) shall be subject
to the provisions of such subsection.
103 STAT. 342 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(5) Hearinc.—Any savings and loan holding company or any
subsidiary of such a holding company against which any pen-
alty is assessed under this subsection shall be afforded a hearing
if such savings and loan holding company or such subsidiary, as

the case may be, submits a request for such hearing within 20
days after the issuance of the notice of assessment. ion &(h)
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act shall apply to any proceed-
ing under this subsection.
12 USC 1468, “SEC. 11. TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES; EXTENSIONS OF CREDIT TO
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, AND PRINCIPAL SHARE-
HOLDERS.
“(a) AFFILIATE TRANSACTIONS.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Re-
serve Act shall apply to every savings association in the same
manner and to the same extent as if the savings association
were a member bank (as defined in such Act), except that—

“(A) no loan or other extension of credit may be made to
any affiliate unless that affiliate is engaged only in activi-
ties described in section 10(c)(2\F\i); and

“(B) no savings association may enter into any trans-
action described in section 23A(bX7\B) of the Federal Re-
serve Act with any affiliate other than with respect to
shares of a subsidiary.

“(2) SISTER BANK EXEMPTION MADE AVAILABLE TO SAVINGS
ASSOCIATIONS. —

“(A) SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS CONTROLLED BY BANK HOLDING
COMPANIES.—Every savings association more than 80 per-
cent of the voting stock of which is owned by a company
described in section 10(cX8) shall be treated as a bank for
spe soy of section 23A(d)(1) and section 23B of the Federal

rve Act, if every savings association and bank con-
trolled by such company complies with all applicable capital
requirements on a fully phased-in basis and without reli-
ance on goodwill

“(B) SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS GENERALLY.—Effective on and
after January 1, 1995, every savings association shall be
treated as a bank for purposes of section 23A(d\(1) and
section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act.

“(3) AFFILIATES DESCRIBED.—Any company that would be an
affiliate (as defined in sections 23A and 23B of the Federal
Reserve Act) of any savings association if such savings associa-
tion were a member bank (as such term is defined in such Act)
shall be deemed to be an affiliate of such savings association for
purposes of paragraph (1).

“(4) ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.—The Director
may impose such additional restrictions on any transaction
between any savings association and any affiliate of such sav-
ings association as the Director determines to be necessary to
protect the safety and soundness of the savings association.

“(b) Extensions oF Crepit To Executive OFrricers, DIRECTORS,
AND PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act
shall apply to every savings association in the same manner and
to the same extent as if the savings association were a member
bank (as defined in such Act).
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

‘(2) ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.—The Director
may impose such additional restrictions on loans or extensions
of credit to any director or executive officer of any savings
association, or any person who directly or indirectly owns,
controls, or has the power to vote more than 10 percent of any
class of voting securities of a savings association, as the Director
determines to be necessary to protect the safety and soundness
of the savings association.

“(c) ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.—The Director may take
enforcement action with respect to violations of this section pursu-
ant to section 8 or 18(j) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as
appropriate.

“SEC. 12. ADVERTISING.

“No savings association shall carry on any sale, plan, or practices,
- any advertising, in violation of regulations promulgated by the
irector.

“SEC. 13. POWERS OF EXAMINERS.

ied he purposes of this Act, examiners appointed by the Direc-
tor s _—

“(1) be subject to the same requirements, responsibilities, and
penalties as are applicable to examiners under the Federal
Reserve Act and title LXII of the Revised Statutes; and

“(2) have, in the exercise of functions under this Act, the same
powers and privileges as are vested in such examiners by law.

“SEC. 14. SEPARABILITY PROVISION.

“If any provision of this Act, or the application thereof to any
person or circumstances, is held invalid, the remainder of the Act,
and the application of such provision to other persons or cir-
cumstances, shall not be affected thereby.”.

SEC, 302. SAVINGS PROVISIONS.

Notwithstanding the amendment made by this title to section 10
of the Home Owners’ Loan Act and the repeal of section 416 of the
National Housing Act—

(1) any plan approved by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board
under such section 10 for any Federal savings association shall
continue in effect as long as such association adheres to yy eer
and continues to submit to the Director of the Office of i
Supervision regular and complete reports on the association’s
progress in meeting the association’s goals under the plan; and

(2) any plan approved by the Federal Savings and Loan
Insurance Corporation under such section 416 for any State
savings association shall continue in effect as long as such
association adheres to the plan and continues to submit to the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation regular and complete
reports on the association’s per in meeting the savings
association’s goals under the plan.

SEC, 303. QUALIFIED THRIFT LENDER TEST.

(a) In GENERAL.—Section 10(m) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act is
amended to read as follows:
“(m) QUALIFIED THRIFT LENDER TEST. —
“(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and
(7), any savings association is a qualified thrift lender if—

103 STAT. 343

12 USC 1468a.

12 USC 1468b.

12 USC 1468c.

12 USC 1467a
note.

12 USC 1467a.
103 STAT. 344

ragraph (1), the Director may grant such temporary an
mited exceptions from the minimum actual thrift investment
rcentage requirement contained in such paragraph as the
rector deems necessary if—

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(A) the savings association’s qualified thrift investments
equal or exc 70 percent of the savings association’s
portfolio assets; and

“(B) the savings association’s a thrift investments
continue to equal or exceed 70 percent of the savings
association’s portfolio assets, as measured by a daily or
weekly average of such qualified thrift investments and
such portfolio assets, for the 2-year period beginning on
J ond 1991, and for each 2-year period thereafter.

CEPTIONS GRANTED BY ee

“(A) the Director determines that extraordinary cir-
cumstances exist, such as when the effects of high interest
rates reduce mortgage demand to such a degree that an
insufficient opportunity exists for a savings association to
meet such investment requirements; or

“(B) the Director determines that—

“(i) the grant of any such exception will significantly
facilitate an acquisition under section 13(c) or 13(k) of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act;

“(ii) the acquired association will comply with the
transition requirements of paragraph (XB , as if the
date of the exemption were the starting date for the
transition period described in that paragraph; and

“(iii) the Director determines that the exemption will
not have an undue adverse effect on com sar savings
associations in the relevant market ana ill further
the purposes of this subsection.

“(3) FAILURE TO BECOME AND REMAIN A QUALIFIED THRIFT
LENDER.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—A savi association that fails to
become or remain a qualified thrift lender shall either
become one or more banks (other than a savings bank) or be
subject to subparagraph (B), except as provided in subpara-
graph (D).

“(B) RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS
THAT ARE NOT QUALIFIED THRIFT LENDERS.—

“(i) RESTRICTIONS EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY.—The fol-
lowing restrictions shall apply to a savings association
beginning on the date on which the savings association
at have become or ceases to be a qualified thrift

ender:

“() Activities.—The savings association shall
not make any new investment (including an invest-
ment in a subsidiary) or engage, directly or in-
directly, in any other new activity unless that
investment or activity would be permissible for the
savings association if it were a national bank, and
is also permissible for the savings association as a
savings association.

“(ID BRANCHING.—The savings association shall
not establish any new branch office at any location
at which a national bank located in the savings
association’s home State may not establish a
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

branch office. For purposes of this subclause, a
savings association’s home State is the State in
which the savings association’s total deposits were
largest on the date on which the savings associa-
tion should have become or ceased to be a qualified
thrift lender.

“(II) ApvaNnces.—The savings association shall
not be eligible to obtain new advances from any
Federal home loan bank.

“(IV) Drvipenps.—The savings association shall
be subject to all statutes and regulations governing
the payment of dividends by a national bank in the
same manner and to the same extent as if the
savings association were a national bank.

“(ii) ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS EFFECTIVE AFTER THREE
yEARS.—The following additional restrictions shall
apply to a savi association beginning 3 years after
the date on which the savings association should have
become or ceases to be a * gaat thrift lender:

“() Activitres.—The savings association shall
not retain any investment (including an invest-
ment in any subsidiary) or engage, directly or in-
directly, in any activity unless that investment or
activity would be permissible for the savings
association if it were a national bank, and is also
permissible for the savings association as a savings
association.

“(II) ApvaNnces.—The savings association shall
repay any outstanding advances from any Federal
home loan bank as promptly as can be prudently
done consistent with the Fate and sound operation
of the savings association.

“(C) HoLDING COMPANY REGULATION.—Any company that
controls a savings association that is subject to any provi-
sion of subp ph (B) shall, within one year after the
date on which the savings association should have become
or ceases to be a qualified thrift lender, register as and be
deemed to be a bank peas company subject to all of the
provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, sec-
tion 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and other
statutes applicable to bank holding companies, in the same
manner and to the same extent as if the company were a
bank holding company and the savings association were a
bank, as those terms are defined in the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956.

“(D) REQUALAFICATION.—A savings association that should
have become or ceases to be a qualified thrift lender shall
not be subject to sub os (B) or (C) if the savings
association becomes a quali thrift lender by meeting the
qualified thrift lender requirement in paragraph (1) for the

receding 2-year period and remains a qualified thrift
ender. If the savings association (or any savings association
that acquired all or substantially all of its assets from that
savi association) at any ee thereafter ceases to be a
qualified thrift lender, it shall immediately be subject to all
provisions of aubperacrarns (B) and (C) as if all the periods
described in subparagraphs (B)ii) and (C) had expired.

103 STAT. 345
103 STAT. 346

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(E) DEPOSIT INSURANCE ASSESSMENTS.—Any bank char-
tered as a result of the requirements of this section shall be
obligated until December 31, 1998, to pay to the Savings
Association Insurance Fund the assessments assessed on
savi associations under the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act. Such association shall also be assessed, on the date of
its change of status from a Savings Association Insurance
Fund member, the exit fee and entrance fee provided in
section 5(d) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Such
institution shall not be obligated to pay the assessments
er on banks under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
un —

“(ij) December 31, 1993, or

“(ii) the institution’s change of status from a Savings
Association Insurance Fund member to a Bank Insur-
ance Fund member,

whichever is later.

“(F) EXEMPTION FOR SPECIALIZED SAVINGS ASSOCIATION
SERVING TRANSIENT MILITARY PERSONNEL.—Subparagraph
(A) shall not apply to a savings association subsidiary of a
savings and loan holding company if—

“(i) the savings and loan holding company is a recip-
rocal interinsurance exchange that acquired control of
the insured institution before January 1, 1984; and

(ii) at least 90 percent of the customers of the
savings and loan holding company and its subsidiaries
and affiliates are active or former officers in the United
States military services or the widows, widowers, di-
vorced spouses, or current or former dependents of
such officers.

“(G) EXEMPTION FOR CERTAIN FEDERAL SAVINGS ASSOCIA-
TIONS.—This paragraph shall not apply to any Federal
savings association in existence as a Federal savings
association on the date of enactment of the Financial
peauens Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of

“(i) that was chartered before October 15, 1982, as a
savings bank or a cooperative bank under State law; or

“(ii) that acquired its principal assets from an
association that was chartered before October 15, 1982,
~ a savings bank or a cooperative bank under State

aw.

“(H) No CIRCUMVENTION OF EXIT MORATORIUM.—Subpara-
graph (A) of this paragraph shall not be construed as
permitting any insured depository institution to engage in
any conversion transaction prohibited under section 5(d) of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.

“(4) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection—

“(A) ACTUAL THRIFT INVESTMENT PERCENTAGE.—The term
‘actual thrift investment percentage’ means the percentage
determined by dividing—

“(j) the amount of a savings association’s qualified
thrift investments, by

“(i) the amount of the savings association’s portfolio
assets.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 347

“(B) Portrouio asseTs.—The term ‘portfolio assets’
means, with respect to any savings association, the total
assets of the savings association, minus the sum of—

“(i) goodwill and other intangible assets;

“(ii) the value of property used by the savings associa-
tion to conduct its business; and

“(iii) liquid assets of the t. required to be main-
tained under section 6 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act,
in an amount not exceeding the amount equal to 10

rcent of the savings association’s total assets.

QUALIFIED THRIFT INVESTMENTS.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘qualified thrift invest-
ments’ means, with respect to any savings association,
the assets of the savings association that are described
in clauses (ii) and (iii).

“Gi) ASSETS INCLUDIBLE WITHOUT LIMIT.—The follow-
ing assets are described in this clause for purposes of
— “CD Th f 1 held by th

bi e aggregate amount of loans he the
savings association that were made to seirclians,
refinance, construct, improve, or repair domestic
residential housing or manufactured housing.

“(ID Home-equity loans.

“(II Securities backed by or representing an
interest in mortgages on domestic residential hous-
ing or manufactured housing.

‘IV) G OBLIGATIONS OF DEPOSIT INSUR-
ANCE AGENCIES.—Direct or indirect obligations of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the
Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation
issued in accordance with the terms of ments
entered into prior to July 1, 1989, for the 10-year
period beginning on the date of issuance of such
obligations.

a NEW OBLIGATIONS OF DEPOSIT INSURANCE
AGENCIES.—Obligations of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, the Federal Savings and
Loan Insurance Co tion, the FSLIC Resolution
Fund, and the Resolution Trust Corporation issued
in accordance with the terms of agreements en-
tered into on or after July 1, 1989, for the 5-year
peri inning on the date of issuance of such
obligations.

“Gii) ASSETS INCLUDIBLE SUBJECT TO PERCENTAGE
RESTRICTION.—The following assets are described in this
clause for purposes of clause (i):

“(1) 50 percent of the dollar amount of the resi-
dential mo loans originated by such savings
association and sold within 90 a of origination.

“(Il Investments in the capital stock or obliga-
tions of, and any other security issued by, any
service corporation if such service corporation de-
rives at least 80 percent of its annual gross reve-
nues from activities directly related to purchasing,
refinancing, icra improving, or re
= residential ieikin or manufactu

ousing.

“
103 STAT. 348

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(III) 200 percent of the dollar amount of loans
and investments made to acquire, develop, and
construct 1- to 4-family residences the purchase
price of which is or is guaranteed to be not greater
than 60 percent of the median value of comparable
newly constructed 1- to 4-family residences within
the local community in which such real estate is
located, except that not more than 25 percent of
the amount included under this subclause may
consist of commercial properties related to the
development if those properties are directly related
to providing services to residents of the develop-
ment.

“(IV) 200 percent of the dollar amount of loans
for the acquisition or improvement of residential
real property, churches, schools, and nursing
homes located within, and loans for any other
purpose to any small businesses located within any
area which has been identified by the Director, in
connection with any review or examination of
community reinvestment practices, as a geographic
area or neighborhood in which the credit needs of
the low- and moderate-income residents of such
area or neighborhood are not being adequately
met.

“(V) Loans for the purchase or construction of
churches, schools, nursing homes, and hospitals,
other than those qualifying under clause (IV), and
loans for the improvement and upkeep of such
properties.

“(VI) Loans for personal, family, household, or
educational purposes, but the dollar amount treat-
ed as qualified thrift investments under this
subclause may not exceed the amount which is
equal to 5 percent of the savings association’s port-
folio assets.

“(iv) PERCENTAGE RESTRICTION APPLICABLE TO CERTAIN
ASSETS.—The aggregate amount of the assets described
in clause (iii) which may be taken into account in
determining the amount of the qualified thrift invest-
ments of any savings association shall not exceed the
amount which is equal to 15 percent of a savings
association’s portfolio assets.

“(v) The term ‘qualified thrift investments’ ex-
cludes—

“(D except for home equity loans, that portion of
any loan or investment that is used for any pur-
pose other than those expressly qualifying under
any subparagraph of clause (ii) or (iii); or

“(I1) goodwill or any other intangible asset.

(5) CONSISTENT ACCOUNTING REQUIRED.—

“(A) In determining the amount of a savings association’s
portfolio assets, the assets of any subsidiary of the savings
association shall be consolidated with the assets of the
savings association if—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 349

“(j) Assets of the subsidiary are consolidated with the
assets of the savings association in determining the
savings association’s qualified thrift investments; or

“(ii) Residential mortgage loans originated by the

subsidi are included pursuant to paragraph
(4(C\iiiXD in determining the savings association’s
qualified thrift investments.

“(B) In determining the amount of a savings association’s
portfolio assets and qualified thrift investments, consistent
accounting principles shall be applied.

“(6) SPECIAL RULES FOR PUERTO RICO AND VIRGIN ISLANDS SAV-
INGS ASSOCIATIONS.—

(A) PUERTO RICO SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.— With respect to
any savings association headquartered and operating pri-
marily in Puerto Rico—

“(i) the term ‘qualified thrift investments’ includes,
in addition to the items specified in paragraph (4)—
“(I) the aggregate amount of loans for personal,
family, educational, or household purposes made to
persons residing or domiciled in the Common-
wealth of Puerto Rico; and
“(I) the aggregate amount of loans for the ac-
quisition or improvement of churches, schools, or
nursing homes, and of loans to small businesses,
located within the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;

and
“(ii) the aggregate amount of loans related to the
purchase, acquisition, development and construction of
1- to 4-family residential real estate—
“(I) which is located within the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico; and
“(ID the value of which (at the time of acquisi-
tion or upon completion of the development and
construction) is below the median value of newly
constructed 1- to 4-family residences in the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, which may be
taken into account in determining the amount of
the qualified thrift investments and of such sav-
ings association shall be doubled.

“(B) VIRGIN ISLANDS SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—With respect
to any savings association headquartered and operating
primarily in the Virgin Islands—

“() the term ‘qualified thrift investments’ includes,
in addition to the items specified in paragraph (4)—
“(I) the aggregate amount of loans for personal,

family, educational, or household pur made to
= residing or domiciled in the rgin Islands;
an

“(ID the aggregate amount of loans for the ac-
quisition or improvement of churches, schools, or
nursing homes, and of loans to small businesses,
located within the Virgin Islands; and

“(ii) the aggregate amount of loans related to the
one acquisition, development and construction of
1- to 4-family residential real estate—

he which is located within the Virgin Islands;

an
103 STAT. 350 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(II) the value of which (at the time of acquisi-
tion or upon completion of the development and
construction) is below the median value of newly
constructed 1- to 4-family residences in the Virgin
Islands, which may be taken into account in deter-
mining the amount of the qualified thrift invest-
ments and of such savings association shall be
doubled.

“(7) TRANSITIONAL RULE FOR CERTAIN SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If any Federal savings association in
existence as a Federal savings association on the date of
enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989—

“(i) that was chartered as a savings bank or a co-
operative bank under State law before October 15,
1982; or

“Gi) that acquired: its principal assets from an
association that was chartered before October 15, 1982,
= a savings bank or a cooperative bank under State
aw,

meets the requirements of subparagraph (B), such savings
association shall be treated as a qualified thrift lender
during period ending on September 30, 1995.

“(B) SUBPARAGRAPH (B) REQUIREMENTS.—A _ savings
association meets the requirements of this subparagraph if,
in the determination of the Director—

“(i) the actual thrift investment percentage of such
association does not, after the date of enactment of the
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforce-
ment Act of 1989, decrease below the actual thrift
investment percentage of such association on July 15,
1989; and

“(ii) the amount by which—

“(I the actual thrift investment percentage of
such association at the end of each period described
in the following table, exceeds

“(Il) the actual thrift investment percentage of
such association on July 15, 1989,

is equal to or greater than the applicable percentage (as
determined under the following table) of the amount by
which 70 percent exceeds the actual thrift investment
percentage of such association on such date of enact-

ment:
“For the following The applicable
period: percentage is:
July 1, 1991-September 30, 1992. 25 percent
October 1, 1992-March 31, 1994 ; 50 percent
abs 1, 1994-September 30, 1995 75 percent
ereafter 100 percent

‘(C) For purposes of this paragraph, the actual thrift

investment percentage of an association on July 15, 1989,

shall be determined by applying the definition of ‘actual

ak ,investment percentage’ that takes effect on July 1,

12 USC 1467a (b) Errecttve Date.—The amendment made by subsection (a)
ete: shall take effect on July 1, 1991.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 351

(c) Associations THAT HAveE Previousty Famtep to Remain 12 USC 1467a
Qua.iriep THrirr Lenpers.—If, as of June 30, 1991, any savings °*-
association is subject to any provision of section 10(m\3) of the
Home Owners’ Loan Act as in effect on that date, the amendment to
this subsection made by section 303 of the Financial Institutions
Reform, Recovery, and orcement Act of 1989, shall not be con-

— as reducing the period specified in section 10(m\3) of such
ct.

SEC. 304. TRANSITIONAL RULE FOR CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS WITH 12 USC 1468
AFFILIATES. note.

(a) ConsisrENCy oF CERTAIN REGULATIONS WitH SecTION 23A oF
THE FEDERAL RESERVE Act.—Not later than 6 months after the date
of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Thrift Super-
vision shall revise the Director’s conflicts regulations so as not to
prohibit a thrift institution from purchasing mortgages from a
mortgage-banking affiliate to the same extent as a member bank
—_ do so under section 250.250 of title 12, Code of Federal Regula-

ions.

(b) TRANSITIONAL PEeRriop.—Notwithstanding section 11(a) of the
Home Owners’ Loan Act (as added by section 301 of this Act), a
thrift institution that, before May 1, 1989, had received approval
from the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation pursuant
to section 408(d\6) of the National Housing Act as then in effect to
p mortgages from a mo e-banking affiliate may, during
the 6-month period following the date on which final regulations are
prescribed pursuant to subsection (a), continue to engage in trans-
actions for which it had received such approval. Any savings associa-
tion that engages in such transactions pursuant to this subsection
shall comply with the standards that were applicable under section
408(d\6) as in effect on May 1, 1989.

(c) AurHority To Extenp ReGcuLatory ApprovaAts THAT WOULD
OTHERWISE Lapse DuRING THE TRANSITIONAL Periop.—The Director
of the Office of Thrift Supervision may extend until the expiration
of the 6-month period described in subsection (b) any approval
granted by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation
that expires or would ire before the iration of that 6-month
period. In determining whether to grant suc ee, the Direc-
tor shall apply the standards that were applicable under section
408(dX6) of the National Housing Act as in effect on May 1, 1989.

SEC. 305. TRANSITIONAL RULES REGARDING CERTAIN LOANS AND EFFEC-
TIVE DATES.

(a) DrvestrrurE or CerRTAIN LOANS AND INVESTMENTS Not Re- 12 USC 1464
QUIRED.—The limitations on loans and investments contained in ®*:
section 5(c) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act, as amended by section
301, do not require the divestiture of any loan or investment that
was lawful when made under the provisions of such section as those
ke gaan were in effect at the time such loan or investment was
made.

(b) Loans SEcuRED By NONRESIDENTIAL REAL PRopERTY.— 12 USC 1464

(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Office of Thrift Super- "*
vision may, by order, permit a Federal savings association to
exceed the limitation set forth in section 5(c\2\ByXi) of the Home
Owners’ Loan Act during the period beginning on the date of
enactment of this Act and ending on June 1, 1991, if the
Director determines that—
103 STAT. 352 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(A) there is a reasonable prospect that the savings
association can be in compliance, not later than June 1,
1991, with the capital standards prescribed under section
5(t) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act; and

(B) the increased authority—

(i) is consistent with prudent operating practices, and
(ii) is in accordance with a plan submitted by the
savings association for—
(I) an orderly transition to compliance with sec-
tion 5(c(2\Byi), or
(II) an orderly conversion to a bank charter.

(2) OTHER EXEMPTIVE AUTHORITY NOT AFFECTED.—The author-
ity granted by paragraph (1) is in addition to any authority of
the Director under section 5(cX2\(BXii) of the Home Owners’
Loan Act.

12 USC 1461 (c) ErrectivE Date.—The amendments made by section 301 relat-
note. ing to civil penalties shall apply with respect to violations commit-
and activities engaged in after the date of the enactment of this
Act, except that the increased maximum civil penalties of $5,000
and $25,000 per violation or per day may apply to such violations or
activities committed or engaged in before such date with respect to

an institution if such violations or activities—

(1) are not pins fhieacs to a notice issued by the appro-
priate Federal banking agency or the Board (initiating an
administrative proceeding); and

(2) occurred after the completion of the last report of exam-
ination of the institution by the appropriate Federal banking
agency (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act) occurring before the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC, 306. AMENDMENT OF ADDITIONAL POWERS OF DIRECTOR.

(a) Section 502(c) of the Housing Act of 1948 (12 U.S.C. 1701c(c)) is
amended by striking out “Federal Home Loan Bank Board (which
term as used in this section shall also include and refer to the
Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, the Home Owners
Loan Corporation, and the Chairman of the Federal Home Loan
Bank Board),” and inserting in lieu thereof the following: “Director
of the Office of Thrift Supervision,”’.

(b) Section 502(cX1) of the Housing Act of 1948 (12 U.S.C.
1701c(b\(1)) is amended by striking out ‘“‘of any State” and inserting
in lieu thereof “of any Federal, State,”’.

SEC. 307. AMENDMENT TO TITLE 31, UNITED STATES CODE.

(a) OrFicE ESTABLISHED AS AN OFFICE WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter I of chapter 3 of title 31, United

* States Code, is amended by redesignating section 309 as section
310 and by inserting after section 308 the following new section:

“§ 309. Office of Thrift Supervision

“The Office of Thrift Supervision established under section 2A(a)
of the Home Owners’ Loan Act shall be an office in the Department
of the Treasury.”’.

(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of chapters for sub-
chapter I of chapter 3 of title 31, United States Code, is amended
by redesignating the item relating to section 309 as section 310
and by inserting after the item relating to section 308 the
following new item:
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 353

“309. Office of Thrift Supervision.”.

(b) ConroRMING AMENDMENT.—Section 321(c) of title 31, United
Sasa viding ot tise d thereof the following h:
at the en ereo ollo new paragrap
*(3) Of the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision;”;
(2) by striking out “and” at the end of ph (1); and
Phase a striking out the peciog at the end of paragraph (2) and
gy Bam lieu thereof “;

© "GAO upir AUTHORITY. elton 714(a) of title 31, United

States Code, is amended—
ace by ae “and the Office of Thrift Supervision” before
riod; and
neo by striking out “and” after “Corporation,”.

(d) Cociee REORGANIZATION PROHIBITED.—Section 321 of title 31,
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof the
following new subsection

“(e) CERTAIN aaditosivies Prouisitep.—The Secretary of the
Treasury may not merge or consolidate the Office of Thrift Super-
vision, or any of the functions or nsibilities of the Office or the
Director of such office, with the ce of the Comptroller of the
Convener oF or the Comptroller of the Currency.”.

(e) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO GOVERNMENT
Contro, Act.—Section 9101(8) of title 31, United States Code, is
amended by striking out subparagraph (E).

SEC. 308. PRESERVING MINORITY OWNERSHIP OF MINORITY FINANCIAL 12 USC 1463

INSTITUTIONS. note.
(a) CONSULTATION ON MetHops.—The Secre of G7 Treasury
shall consult with the Director of the Office of a
and the Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit

inearenee Corporation on methods for best achieving the following

me) Preserving the present number of minority depository
institutions.

(2) Preserving their minority character in cases involving
mergers or acquisition of a minority depository institution by
using ye preference guidelines in the following order:

(A) Same type of minority depository institution in the
same ci

(B) Same type of minority depository institution in the
same State.
Same type of minority depository institution nation-

e

(D) Any type of minority depository institution in the
same ci

(E) Any type of minority depository institution in the
same State.

ht Any type of minority depository institution nation-
wide

(G) Any other bidders.

(3) Providing technical assistance to prevent insolvency of
institutions not now insolvent.

(4) Promoting and encouraging creation of new minority
depository institutions.

5) Providing for training, technical assistance, and edu-
cational programs.

(b) Derinirions.—For purposes of this section—
103 STAT. 354 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(1) Minority FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.—The term “minority

depository institution” means any depository institution that—

(A) if a privately owned institution, 51 percent is owned

by one or more socially and economically disadvantaged
individuals;

(B) if publicly owned, 51 percent of the stock is owned by
one or more socially and economically disadvantaged
individuals; and

(C) in the case of a mutual institution where the majority
of the Board of Directors, account holders, and the commu-
nity which it services is predominantly minority.

(2) Mrnority.—The term “minority” means any black Amer-
ican, Native American, Hispanic American, or Asian American.

pa 1487 TITLE IV—TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS,

PERSONNEL, AND PROPERTY
Government SEC. 401. FSLIC AND FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK BOARD ABOLISHED.
cals and (a) IN GENERAL. —

(1) FSLIC.—Effective on the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation estab-
pane under section 402 of the National Housing Act is abol-
ished.

(2) FHLBB.—Effective at the end of the 60-day Bache begin-
ning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Federal Home
Loan Bank Board and the position of Chairman of the Federal
Home Loan Bank Board are abolished.

(b) Disposition or AFFAIRS.—

(1) In GENERAL.—During the 60-day period beginning on the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Federal
Home Loan Bank Board—

(A) shall, solely for the purpose of winding up the affairs
of the Federal Savings arid Loan Insurance Corporation and
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board—

(i) manage the employees of the Board and provide
for the ag oo of the compensation and benefits of
any such employee which accrue before the effective
date of the transfer of such employee pursuant to
section 403; and

(ii) manage any property of the Board and the Cor-
poration until such property is transferred pursuant to
section 405; and

(B) may take any other action necessary for the purpose
of winding up the affairs of the Corporation and the Board.

(2) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS IN FSLIC RESOLUTION FUND ON A
REIMBURSABLE BASIS.—

(A) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Notwithstanding any provi-
sion of section 11A of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (as
added by section 215 of this Act), funds in the FSLIC
Resolution Fund shall be available to the Chairman of the
Federal Home Loan Bank Board to pay any expense in-
curred in carrying out the requirements of paragraph (1).

(B) PayMENT By FpIc.—Upon the ces ee of the Chairman
of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation shall pay to the Chairman from the
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG., 9, 1989 103 STAT. 355

FSLIC Resolution Fund the amounts requested for expenses
described in subparagraph (A).

(C) EXCLUSIVE SOURCE OF FUNDS.—No funds or other prop-
erty of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board or the Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (other than the
FSLIC Resolution Fund) may be used by the Chairman of
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to pay any expense
incurred in carrying out any provision of this title.

(D) REIMBURSEMENT BY SUCCESSOR AGENCIES.—Disburse-
ments from the FSLIC Resolution Fund pursuant to
pia ap aig (A) which are a gee to employees de-

ph (1XAXi) and property described in
Bes (1XAii) shall be reimb by the agency to
paragrap any such employee or property is transferred.
(c) Aeiasnes AND Stratus oF CHAIRMAN OF THE FEDERAL HOME
Loan BANK Boarp.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the repeal of section 17 of
the Federal Home Loan Bank Act by section 703 of this Act, the
repeal of section 402(c) of the National Housing Act by section
407 of this title, the abolishment of the Federal Savi and
Loan Insurance Corporation under section 401 of this title, the
Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board shall have
any authority vested in the Chairman or the Board before such
date of enactment which is necessary for the Chairman to carry
out the requirements of this section, paragraphs (1) and (2) of
section 403(b), and section 405(a) during the 60-day period begin-
ning on such date.

(2) OrHER PROVISIONS.—For purposes of paragraph (1), the
Chairman of the Federal Home Bank Board shall continue
to be—

(A) treated as an officer of the United States during the
60-day period referred to in such subparagraph; and

(B) entitled to compensation at the annual rate of basic
pay payable for level III of the Executive Schedule.

(3) NO ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION IF APPOINTED DIRECTOR.—
During the 60-day period beginning on the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board shall not be entitled to any additional com ieee
reason of his appointment as Director of the ce of Thri
Supervision.

(d) Status or Emptoyees Berore TRANSFER.—

(1) EMPLOYEES OF FsLIC.—Any employee of the Federal Sav-
ings and Loan Insurance a shall be treated as an
employee of the Federal Home Bank Board for purposes of
subsection (bX 1 Ai).

(2) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—The repeal of section 17 of the
Federal Home Loan Bank Act by section 703 of this Act, the
rr of section 402(c) of the National Housing Act by section

of this title, and the abolishment of the Federal Savings and
shh Insurance Corporation under section 401 of this title, shall
not be construed as affecting the status of employees of such
Corporation or of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board as
employees of an — of the United States for purposes of any
other provision of fore the effective date of the transfer of
any such employee pursuant to section 403.

(e) CONTINUATION OF SERVICES.—
103 STAT. 356

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(1) In GENERAL.—The Director of the Office of Thrift Super-
vision, the Chairperson of the Oversight Board of the Resolution
Trust Corporation, the Chairperson of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, and the Chairperson of the Federal
Housing Finance Board may use the services of employees and
other oe and the property of the Federal Home Loan
Bank and the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Cor-

ration, on a reimbursable basis, to perform functions which

ve been transferred to such agencies for such time as is
reasonable to facilitate the orderly transfer of functions trans-
ferred pursuant to say Rigger’ provision of this Act or any
amendment made by this Act to any other provision of law.

(2) ReIMBURSEMENT.—The reimbursement required under
paragraph (1) with respect to employees, personnel, and prop-
erty described in such paragraph shall be made to the FSLIC
Resolution Fund and shall be taken into account in determining
Pee of any reimbursement required under subsection

(3) AGENCY SERVICES.—Any agency, departs or other
penny of the United States (including any Federal
home loan bank), and any successor to any such agency, depart-
ment, or instrumentality, which was providing supporting serv-
ices to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board or the Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation before the enactment
of this Act in connection with functions that are transferred to
the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Resolution Trust Corpora-
tion, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the Federal
Housing Finance Board shall—

(A) continue to provide such services, on a reimbursable
basis, until the transfer of such functions is complete; and

(B) consult with any such agency to coordinate and facili-
tate a prompt and reasonable transition.

(f) Savincs Provisions RELATING To FSLIC.—

(1) ExIsTING RIGHTS, DUTIES, AND OBLIGATIONS NOT AFFECTED.—
Subsection (a) shall not affect the validity of any right, duty, or
obligation of the United States, the Federal Savings and Vaan
Insurance Corporation, or any other person, which—

(A) arises under or pursuant to any section of title IV of
the National poe | Act; and
A yer eate on the day before the date of the enactment of
this Act.

(2) CONTINUATION OF suITs.—No action or other proceeding
commenced by or against the Federal Savings and Loan Insur-
ance Corporation, or any Federal home loan bank with respect
to any function of the Corporation which was delegated to
employees of such bank, shall abate by reason of the enactment
of this Act, except that the be 5 Sa ate successor to the in-
terests of such Corporation sh substituted for the Corpora-
tion or the Federal home loan bank as a party to any such
action or i

Paovmsnons
(g) Savinas Provisions RELATING TO FHLBB.—

(1) EXISTING RIGHTS, DUTIES, AND OBLIGATIONS NOT AFFECTED.—
Subsection (a) shall not affect the validity of any right, rg ae
obligation of the United States, the Federal Home Loan k

, or any other person, which—
(A) arises under or pursuant to the Federal Home Loan
Bank Act, the Home Owners’ Loan Act of 1933, or any other
PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 357

provision of law a go with respect to such Board
(other than title of the National Housing Act); and

(B) existed on the day before the date of the enactment of
this Act.

(2) CONTINUATION OF SUITS.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—No action or other stages, Sry
menced by or inst the Federal Home Loan Bank
or any Federal home loan bank with respect to any function
of the Board which was may: to employees of such
bank, shall abate by reason of the enactment of this Act,
except that the appropriate successor to the interests of
such Board shall be substituted for the Board or the Federal
home loan bank as a party to any such action or proceeding.
(h) CoNTINUATION OF ORDERS, RESOLUTIONS, DETERMINATIONS, AND
REGULATIONS.—Subject to section 402, all orders, resolutions, deter-
minations, and regulations, which—

(1) have been issued, made, prescribed, or allowed to become
effective by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corpora-
tion or the Federal Home Loan Bank Board (including orders,
resolutions, determinations, and regulations which relate to the
conduct of conservatorships and receiverships), or by a court of
competent jurisdiction, in the performance of functions which
are transferred by this Act; and

(2) are in effect on the date this Act takes effect,

shall continue in effect according to the terms of such orders,
resolutions, determinations, and tions and shall be enforce-
able by or against the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision,
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Housing
Finance Board, or the Resolution Trust Corporation, as the case ma
be, until modified, terminated, set aside, or superseded in accord-
ance with — law by the Director of the Office of Thrift
Supervision, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal
Housing Finance Board, or the Resolution Trust Corporation, as the
-~ may be, by any court of competent jurisdiction, or by operation
of law. 3

(i) IDENTIFICATION OF REGULATIONS WHICH REMAIN IN EFFECT
PuRsuANT TO Tuts Secrion.—Before the end of the 60-day period
beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of
the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Chairperson of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall—

(1) identify the regulations and orders which relate to the
conduct of conservatorships and receiverships in accordance
with the allocation of authority between them under this Act
and the amendments made by this Act; and

(2) promptly publish notice of such identification in the Fed- Federal
eral Register.

SEC. 402. CONTINUATION AND COORDINATION OF CERTAIN REGULATIONS.

(a) ReGuLATIONS RELATING TO INSURANCE FuNcTIONS.—AIl regula-
tions and orders of the Federal Savi and Loan Insurance Cor-
poration, or the Federal Home Loan Board (in such Board’s
or savy as the board of trustees of such Corporation), which are in

ect on the date of the enactment of this Act and relate to—

(1) the provision, rates, or cancellation of insurance of ac-
counts; or

(2) the administration of the insurance fund of the Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation,
103 STAT. 358

Federal

ab cation.

Regulations.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

shall remain in effect according to the terms of such regulations and
orders and shall be enforceable by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation unless determined otherwise by such Corporation after
consultation with the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision
and, with respect to regulations and orders relating to the scope of
deposit insurance coverage, pursuant to subsection (c).

(b) IDENTIFICATION OF REGULATIONS WHICH REMAIN IN EFFECT
Pursuant To Tuts Section.—Before the end of the 60-day period
beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of
the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Chairperson of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall—

(1) identify the regulations and orders referred to in subsec-
tion (a) of this section in accordance with the allocation of
authority between them under this Act and the amendments
made by this Act; and

~ ey publish notice of such identification in the Fed-
er.

(c) Coccutaian: ror DirFERENCES IN Deposit INSURANCE COVERAGE
BETWEEN FSLIC anp FDIC.—

(1) TRANSITION RULE.—Until the effective date of regulations
prescribed under par. paragrape (3B), any determination of the
amount of any ins it in any depository institution
which becomes an insured depository institution as a result |
the amendment made to section 4(a) of the Federal De
Insurance Act by section 205(1) of this Act shall be ma
accordance with the regulations and interpretations of the Fed-
eral Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation f for determining
the amount of an insured account which were in effect on the
ony before the date of the enactment of this Act.

2) LIMITATION ON EXTENT OF COVERAGE.—During the period
beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and endin
on the effective date of regulations prescribed under paragrap
(3B), the amount of ee oe insured account which is required to
be treated as an insured ys owe pursuant to serach (1) shall
not exceed the amount of insurance to which such insured
account would otherwise have beer entitled pursuant to. the
regulations and interpretations of the Federal Savings and Loan
Insurance Corporation which were in effect on the day before
the date of the enactment of this Act.

(3) UNIFORM TREATMENT OF INSURED DEPOsITS.—The Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall—

(A) review its regulations, principles, and interpretations
for deposit i insurance coverage and those established by the
Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation; and

(B) on or before the end of the 270-day eae beginning
on the date of the enactment of this prescribe a
uniform set of regulations which shall be applicable to all
insured deposits in insured ge preg institutions (except
to the extent any provision of this Act, any amendment
made by this Act to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, or
any other pean ° of law Pectidieg “sa or explicitly permits the
a oy pet orgy ration to treat insured

its of Savings Assnctction urance Fund members
ifferently than insured deposits of Bank Insurance Fund
members).

(4) FACTORS REQUIRED TO BE CONSIDERED.—In peeecerae regu-
lations providing for the uniform treatment of deposit insurance
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 359

cove , the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall con-
sider all relevant factors necessary to promote safety and sound-
ness, depositor confidence, and the stability of deposits in in-
sured depository institutions.

(5) Notice; EFFECTIVE DATE.—Regulations prescribed under
this subsection shall—

(A) provide for effective notice to depositors in insured
depository institutions of any change in deposit insurance
coverage which would result under such regulations; and

(B) take effect on or before the end of the 90-day period
beginning on the date such regulations become final.

(6) Dermnitions.—F or purposes of this subsection—

(A) INsuRED accouNT.—The term “insured account” has
the meaning given to such term in section 40l(c) of the
National Housing Act (as in effect before the date of the
enactment of this Act).

(B) INSURED DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION.—The term “insured
depository institution” has the meaning given to such term
in section 3(c2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.

(d) INTERIM TREATMENT OF CusTopDIAL ACCOUNTS.—

(1) In GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2) and notwithstand-
ing subsection (a) or any limitation contained in the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act relating to the amount of deposit insur-
ance available to any 1 borrower, amounts held in custodial
accounts in insured depository institutions (as defined in section
3(c(2) of such Act) for the payment of principal, interest, tax,
and insurance payments for mortgage borrowers, shall be in-
sured under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act in the amount of
$100,000 per mortgage borrower.

(2) TREATMENT AFTER EFFECTIVE DATE OF NEW REGULATIONS.—
After the effective date of the regulations prescribed under
subsection (c)—

(A) the amount of deposit insurance available for custo-
dial accounts shall be determined in accordance with such
regulations; and

(B) paragraph (1) shall cease to apply with respect to such
accounts.

(e) TREATMENT OF REFERENCES IN ADJUSTABLE RATE MorTGAGE
INSTRUMENTS.—

(1) In GENERAL.—For porpeees of adjustable rate mortgage
instruments that are in effect as of the date of enactment of this
Act, any reference in the instrument to the Federal Savings and
Loan Insurance Corporation, the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board, or institutions insured by the Federal Savings and Loan
Insurance Corporation before such date shall be treated as a
reference to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the
Federal Housing Finance Board, the Office of ift Super-
vision, or institutions which are members of the Savings
Association Insurance Fund, as wee ee on the basis of the
transfer of functions pursuant to this Act, unless the context of
the reference requires otherwise.

(2) SUBSTITUTION FOR INDEXES.—If any index used to calculate
the applicable interest rate on any adjustable rate mortgage
instrument is no longer calculated and made available as a
— or indirect result of the enactment of this Act, any
index—
103 STAT. 360

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(A) made available by the Director of the Office of Thrift
Supervision, the Chairperson of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, or the Chairperson of the Federal Hous-
ing Finance Board pone Ds to paragraph (3); or

(B) determined the Director of the Office of Thrift
sta aa hare the Gheirnecsen of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance ig or the Chairperson of the Federal Hous-

Finance Board, pursuant to paragraph (4), to be
su tially similar to the index which is no longer cal-
culated or ade available,

may be substituted by the holder of any such adjustable rate
mortgage instrument upon notice to the borrower.

(3) AGENCY ACTION REQUIRED TO PROVIDE CONTINUED AVAIL-
ABILITY OF INDEXES.—Promptly after the enactment of this
a a the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, the

rson of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and
the rson of the Federal Housing Finance Board shall
take such action as may be necessary to assure that the indexes
prepared by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corpora-
tion, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, and the Federal
home loan banks immediately prior to the enactment of this
subsection and used to calculate the interest rate on adjustable
rate mortgage instruments continue to be available.

(4) REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO SUBSTITUTE INDEXES.—If any
agency can no longer make available an index pursuant to
peseriphs (3), an index that is substantially similar to such
index may be substituted for such index for purposes of para-
ae aph (2) if the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, the

ange? Snel of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or

rson of the Federal Housing Finance Board, as the
cn may be, determines, after notice and opportunity for com-
ment, that—

(A) the new index is based upon data substantially simi-
lar to that of the original index; and

(B) the substitution of the new index will result in an
interest rate substantially similar to the rate in effect at
the time the original index became unavailable.

SEC. 403. DETERMINATION OF TRANSFERRED FUNCTIONS AND EM-
PLOYEES.

(a) ALL FHLBB anp FSLIC Emptoyvers SHALL Be TRANSFERRED.—
All employees of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and the
Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation shall be identified
for transfer under subsection (b) to the Federal Deposit Insurance
ponpoeaiiom, the ¢ the Office of Thrift Supervision, or the Federal Hous-

mb) FUNCTIONS AND EMPLOYEES TRANSFERRED.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Office of Thrift Super-
vision, the Chairperson of the Oversight Board of the Resolution
Trust Corporation, the Chairperson of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, the Chairperson of the Federal Housing
Finance , and the Chairman of the Federal Home Loan
Bank Board (as of the day before the date of the enactment of
this Act) shall jointly determine the functions or activities of
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and the Federal Savings
and Loan Insurance Corporation, and the number of employees
of such Board and Corporation necessary to perform or support
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

such functions or activities, which are transferred from the
Federal Home Loan Bank Board and the Federal Savings and
Loan Insurance Corporation to the Office of Thrift Supervision,
the Resolution Trust Corporation, the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, or the Federal Housing Finance Board, as the
case may be.

(2) ALLOCATION OF EMPLOYEES.—The Director of the Office of
Thrift Supervision, the Chairperson of the Oversight Board of
the Resolution Trust Corporation, the Chairperson of the Fed-
eral Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Chairperson of the
Federal Housing Finance Board shall allocate the employees of
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and the Federal Savings
and Loan Insurance Corporation consistent with the number
determined pursuant to paragraph (1) in a manner which such
Director, Chairman, and Chairpersons, in their sole discretion,
deem equitable, except that, within work units, the agency
preferences of individual employees shall be accommodated as
far as possible.

(c) Fep—eraL Home Loan BANK PERSONNEL.—Employees of the
Federal home loan banks or the joint offices of such banks who, on
the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, are performing
functions or activities on behalf of the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board or the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation shall
be treated as employees of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board or
the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation for — of
determining, pursuant to subsection (b)(1), the number of employees
performing or supporting functions or activities of such Board or
Corporation to the extent such functions or activities are trans-
ferred to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of
Thrift Supervision, the Resolution Trust Corporation, or the Federal
Housing Finance Board.

(d) FSLIC Empitovees ENGAGED IN CONSERVATORSHIP OR RECEIVER-
sHip FuNctions.—Individuals who, on the day before the date of the
enactment of this Act, are employed by the Federal Savings and
Loan Insurance Corporation in such Corporation’ S$ capacity as con-
servator or receiver of any insured depository institution shall be
treated as employees of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance
Corporation for purposes of determining, pursuant to subsection
(b\1), the number of employees performing or supporting functions
or activities of such Corporation if such conservatorship or receiver-
ship is transferred to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or
the Resolution Trust Corporation.

SEC. 404. RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES OF ABOLISHED AGENCIES.

All employees identified for transfer under subsection (b) of sec-
tion 403 (other than individuals described in subsection (c) or (d) of
such section) shall be entitled to the following rights:

(1) Each employee so identified shall be transferred to the
appropriate agency or entity for employment no later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this Act and such
transfer shall be deemed a transfer of function for the purpose
of section 3503 of title 5, United States Code.

(2) Each transferred employee shall be guaranteed a position
with the same status, tenure, and pay as that held on the day
immediately preceding the transfer. Each such employee hold-
ing a permanent position shall not be involuntarily separated or

103 STAT. 361
103 STAT. 362

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

reduced in grade or compensation for 1 year after the date of
transfer, except for cause.

(3XA) In the case of employees occupying positions in the
excepted service or the Senior Executive Service, any appoint-
ment authority established pursuant to law or regulations of
the Office of Personnel Management for filling such positions
shall be transferred, subject to subparagraph (B).

(B) An agency or entity may decline a transfer of authority
under subparagraph (A) (and the employees appointed pursuant
thereto) to the extent that such authority relates to positions
excepted from the competitive service because of their confiden-
tial, policy-making, policy-determining, or say scl ido
character, and noncareer positions in the Senior Executive
Service (within the meaning of section 3132(aX(7) of title 5,
United States Code).

(4) If any agency or entity to which employees are transferred
determines, after the end of the l-year period beginning on the
date the transfer of functions to such agency or entity is com-
pleted, that a reorganization of the combined work force is
required, that reorganization shall be deemed a ‘‘major reorga-
nization” for purposes of affording affected employees retire-
ment under section 8336(d\2) or 8414(b\1\B) of title 5, United
States Code.

(5) Any employee ercegtng employment with any agency or
entity (other than the Office of Thrift Supervision) as a result of
such transfer may retain for 1 year after the date such transfer
occurs membership in any employee benefit program of the
Federal Home Loan Bank Board, including insurance, to which
— employee belongs on the date of the enactment of this Act

(A) the employee does not elect to give up the benefit or
membership in the program; and
(B) the benefit or progran is continued by the Director of
the Office of Thrift Supervision.
The difference in the costs between the benefits which would
have been provided by such agency or entity and those provided
by this section shall be paid by the Director of the ce of
Thrift Supervision. If any employee elects to give up member-
ship in a health insurance program or the health insurance
rogram is not continued by the Director of the Office of Thrift
upervision, the employee shall be permitted to select an alter-
nate Federal health insurance program within 30 days of such
election or notice, without regard to any other regularly sched-
uled open season.

(6) Any employee employed by the Office of Thrift Supervision
as a result of the transfer may retain membership in veo
employee benefit program of the Federal Home Loan Ban

, including insurance, which such employee has on the
date of enactment of this Act, if such employee does not elect to
give up such membership and the benefit or program is contin-
ued by the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision. If any
employee elects to give up membership in a health insurance
program or the health insurance program is not continued by
the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, such employee
shall be permitted to select an alternate Federal health insur-
ance program within 30 days of such election or discontinuance,
without regard to any other regularly scheduled open season.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 363

(7) A transferring employee in the Senior Executive Service
shall be placed in a comparable position at the agency or entity
to which such employee is transferred.

(8) Transferring employees shall receive notice of their posi-
tion assignments not later than 120 days after the effective date
of their transfer.

(9) Upon the termination of the Resolution Trust Corporation
pursuant to section 21A(m) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act,
any employee of such Corporation shall be transferred to the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in accordance with the
provisions of ery. ag (2) and (4) through (7) of this subsec-
tion, except that the liability for any difference in the costs of
benefits described in paragraph (5) shall be a liability of the
Resolution Trust Corporation and not the Office of Thrift
Supervision.

SEC. 405. DIVISION OF PROPERTY AND FACILITIES.

Before the end of the 60-day period Ma sage on the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Thrift Super-
vision, the Chairperson of the Oversight Board of the Resolution
Trust Corporation, the irperson of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, and the Chairperson of the Federal Housing
Finance d shall rag Gacbinen all property of the Federal Sav-
ings and Loan Insurance ration and the Federal Home Loan
Bank Board used to perform ctions and activities of the Federal
Home Loan Bank Board among the Office of Thrift Supervision, the
Resolution Trust Corporation, the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration, and the Federal Housing Finance rd in accordance
with the division of responsibilities, functions, and activities effected
by this Act. Any disagreement between them in so doing shall be
resolved by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.

SEC. 406. REPORT.

Before the end of the 60-day period inning on the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Federal Home Loan
Bank Board shall provide by written report to the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and
the Congress, a final accounting of the finances and operations of
the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.

SEC. 407. REPEALS.
Title 4 of the National Housing Act (1724 et seq.) is hereby 12 USC 1724

repealed. et seq.
TITLE V—FINANCING FOR THRIFT
RESOLUTIONS

Subtitle A—Oversight Board and Resolution
Trust Corporation

SEC. 501. OVERSIGHT BOARD AND RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION
ESTABLISHED.

(a) In GENERAL.—The Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C.
1421 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 21 the following
new section:
103 STAT. 364

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

12 USC 144la. “SEC. 21A. OVERSIGHT BOARD AND RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION.

“(a) OVERSIGHT BOARD EsTABLISHED.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—There is hereby established the Oversight
Board as an instrumentality of the United States with the
powers and authorities herein provided.

“(2) Srarus.—The Oversight Board shall oversee and be
accountable for the Resolution Trust Corporation (hereinafter
referred to in this section as the ‘Corporation’). The Oversight
Board shall be an ‘agency’ of the United States for pores of
a II of chapter 5 and chapter 7 of title 5, United States

e.
“(3) MEMBERSHIP.—
“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Oversight Board shall consist of 5
members—

“(i) the Secretary of the Treasury;

“(ii) the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System;

“(iii) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment; and

“(iv) two independent members appointed by the
President, with the advice and consent of the Senate.
Such nominations shall be referred to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.

“(B) POLITICAL AFFILIATION.—The independent members
shall not be members of the same political . No
independent member of the Oversight Board s hold any
other appointed office during his or her term as a member.

“(C) ERSON.—The Chairperson of the Oversight
Board shall be the Secretary of the Treasury.

“(D) TERM OF OFFICE.—The term of each member (other
than the independent members) of the Oversight Board
shall expire when such member has fulfilled all of his or
her responsibilities under this section and section 21B. The
term of each independent member shall be 3 years.

“(E) QUORUM REQUIRED.—A quorum consist of 3
members of the Oversight Board and all decisions of the
Board shall require an affirmative vote of at least a major-
ity of the members voting.

“(4) COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.—

“(A) Expenses.—Members of the Oversight Board shall
receive allowances in accordance with subchapter I of chap-
ter 57 of title 5, United States Code, for necessary expenses
of travel, lodging, and subsistence incurred in attending
meetings and other activities of the sr aoe as set
forth in the bylaws issued by the Oversight ;

“(B) No ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION FOR UNITED STATES
OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES.—Members of the Oversight Board
(other than independent members) shall receive no addi-
tional pay by reason of service on such Board.

“(C) rg Magni pul FOR INDEPENDENT MEMBERS.—The
independent members of the Oversight Board shall be paid
at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the rate of basic
pay for level II of the Executive Schedule for each day
(including travel time) during which such member is en-
gaged in the actual performance of duties of the Oversight
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 365
“(5) Powers.—The Oversight Board shall be a body corporate

that shall have ied steed to—
“(A) adopt, alter, and use a corporate seal;
“(B) provide for a principal or executive officer and such
other officers and empl as may be n to per-

form the functions of the Oversight Board, define their
duties, and require surety bonds or make other provisions
inst losses occasioned by acts of such persons;
“(C) fix the compensation and number of, and appoint,
employees for any position established by the Oversight

“(D) set and adjust rates of basic pay for employees of the
Oversight Board without regard to the provisions of chapter
51 or subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States

e;

“(E) provide additional compensation and benefits to
employees of the Oversight Board if the same type of
compensation or benefits are then being provided by any
other Federal bank regulatory agency or, if not then being
provided, could be provided by such an agency under ap-
plicable provisions of law, rule, or regulation; in setting and
adjusting the total amount of compensation and benefits for
employees of the ps a Board, the Oversight Board
shall consult with and seek to maintain com ility with
the other Federal bank regulatory agencies, except that the
Oversight Board shall not in any event ex the com-

nsation and benefits provided by the Federal Deposit

nsurance Corporation with respect to any comparable
position;

“(F) with the consent of any executive agency, depart-
ment, or independent agency utilize the information, serv-
ices, staff, and facilities of such department or aecy, ona
reimbursable (or other) basis, in carrying out this section;

“(G) prescribe bylaws that are consistent with law to
provide for the manner in which—

“(i) its officers and employees are selected, and

“(ii) its general operations are to be conducted;

“(H) enter into contracts and modify or consent to the
modification of any contract or agreement;

0 sue and be sued in courts of competent jurisdiction;
an

“(J) exercise any and all powers established under this
section and such incidental powers as are necessary to
carry out its powers, duties, and functions under this Act.

“(6) OVERSIGHT BOARD DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES.—The Over-
sight Board shall have the following duties and authorities with
respect to the Corporation:

“(A) To develop and establish overall strategies, policies,
and goals for the Corporation’s activities in consultation
with the Corporation, erveagr | such items as—

“(i) general policies and procedures for case resolu-
tions, the management disposition of assets, the
use of private contractors, and the use of notes, guaran-
tees or other obligations by the Corporation;

“(ii) overall financial goals, plans, and budgets; and

“(iii) restructuring agreements described in subsec-
tion (b(11)(B).
103 STAT. 366

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(B) To approve prior to implementation periodic financ-
ing requests developed by the Corporation.

“(C) To review all rules, regulations, principles, proce-
dures, and guidelines that may be adopted or announced by
the Corporation. After consultation with the Corporation,
the Oversight Board may require the modification of any
such rules, tions, principles, procedures, or guidelines
except that the rules, regulations, principles, procedures,
and guidelines relating to the Corporation’s powers and
activities as a conservator or receiver shall be consistent
with the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. The provisions of
this subparagraph shall not apply to internal administra-
tive policies and procedures, and determinations or actions

ibed in paragraph (8) of this subsection.

“(D) To review the overall performance of the Corpora-
tion on a periodic basis, including its work, management
activities, and internal controls, and the performance of the
Corporation relative to approved budget plans.

“(E) To require from the Corporation any reports, docu-
ments, and records it deems necessary to carry out its
oversight responsibilities.

“(F) To establish a national advisory board and regional
“(G) To authorize the use of proceeds from any funds

rovided by the Treasury to the Corporation and from any
cing the Resolution Funding Corporation estab-
lished pursuant to section 21B of this Act consistent with
the approved budget and financial plans of the Corporation
and to oversee the collection of funds by the Resolution
Funding Corporation.

“(H) To evaluate audits by the Inspector General and
other a asseapronarrd required audits.

“(I) To have general oversight over the Resolution Fund-
ing Corporation as provided under section 21B of this Act.

(J) To authorize, as appropriate, the Corporation’s sale
of capital certificates to the Resolution Funding Corpora-
tion.

“(7) TRANSITION POLICIES.—Until such time as the Oversight
Board and the Corporation (consistent with paragraph (6) and
subsection (b\12)) adopt strategies, policies, goals, regulations,
rules, operating principles, procedures, or guidelines, the Cor-
poration may carry out its duties in accordance with the strate-
gies, policies, goals, regulations, rules, operating principles,
=m By scriy or guidelines of the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-

ration, notwithstanding the provisions of section 553 of title 5,

nited States Code.

“(8) LIMITATION ON AUTHORITY.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation shall have the
authority, without any prior review, approval, or dis-
app by the Oversight Board, to make such determina-
tions and take such actions as it deems appropriate with
respect to case-specific matters (i) involving individual case
resolutions, (ii) asset liquidations, or (iii) day-to-day oper-
ations of the Corporation. The precemee sentence in no way
limits the authority of the Oversight Board to provide
general policies and procedures.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 367

“(B) FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE een Naning
contained in this section shall give the Oversight
authority over the activities, powers, or functions of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation except to the extent
provided in this section and only with respect to the activi-
ties of the Federal os ora Insurance Corporation in carry-
ing out the responsibilities of the Corporation. The Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation be subject to the
obligations, responsibilities, duties, and restrictions im-
—_ by this section only to the extent it is carrying out the

ctions of the Corporation.

“(9) DeLEGATION.—Except with to the meetings re-
quired by paragraph (10), nothing in this section shall preclude
a member of the Oversight Board who is a public official from
delegating his or her authority to an employee or officer of such
member’s agency or organization, if such employee or officer
has been appointed by the President with the advice and con-
sent of the Senate. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the
Chairman of the of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System may delegate his or her authority to another member of
the Board of Governors.

“(10) QUARTERLY MEETINGS.—Not less than 4 times each year,
the Oversight Board shall conduct open meetings to establish
and review the general policy of the Corporation and to consider
such other standards, policies, and procedures necessary to
pers out its functions under this Act.

“(11) PowER TO REMOVE; JURISDICTION.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, any civil action, suit, or proceeding to
which the Oversight isa shall be deemed to arise
under the laws of the United States, and the United States
district courts shall have original jurisdiction. The Oversight
Board may, without bond or security, remove any such action,
suit, or p ing from a State court to a United States District
Court or to the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia.

“(12) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—The administrative ex-
penses of the akg Board shall be paid by the Corporation,
upon request of the Oversight Board.

“(13) STANDARDS, POLICIES, PROCEDURES, GUIDELINES, AND
STATEMENTS.—The Oversight Board may issue rules, regula-
tions, standards, licies, procedures, guidelines, and
statements as the ersight pack considers necessary or
agony to carry out its authorities and duties under this
Act which shall be | pene essant to subchapter II of
chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code.

“(14) STRATEGIC PLAN FOR CORPORATION OPERATIONS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Oversight Board shall, subject to
paragraph (6), develop a strategic plan for conducting the
Corporation’s functions and activities. The Oversight
8 submit the strategic plan to the Congress not later
than December 31, 1989.

“(B) PROVISIONS OF PLAN.—The strategic plan and im-
plementing policies and procedures required under this
paragraph shall at a minimum contain the following:

“(j) Factors the Corporation shall consider in decid-
ing the order in which failed institutions or categories
of failed institutions will be resolved.
103 STAT. 368

Discrimination,
prohibition.

Women.

Disadvantaged

Homeless
ns.
ildren and
youth.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(ii) Standards the Corporation shall use to select the
appropriate resolution action for a failed institution.

‘(iii) With respect to assisted acquisitions, factors the
Corporation shall consider in deciding whether non-
performing assets of the failed institution will be trans-
ferred to the acquiring institution rather than retained
by the Corporation for management and disposal.

“(iv) Plans for the disposition of assets.

“(vy) Management objectives by which the Corpora-
tion’s progress in eerie out its duties under this
section can be measured.

“(vi) A plan for the organizational structure and

of the Corporation, including an assessment of
the extent to which the Corporation will perform asset
management functions and other duties through con-
tracts with public and private entities.

“(vii) Consideration of whether incentives should be
included in asset management contracts to promote
active and efficient asset management.

“(viii) Standards for adequate competition and fair
and consistent treatment of offerors.

“(ix) Standards that prohibit discrimination on the
basis of race, sex, or ethnic group in the solicitation and
consideration of offers.

“(x) Procedures for the active solicitation of offers
from minorities and women.

“(xi) Procedures requiring that unsuccessful offerors
be notified in writing of the decision within 30 days
after the offer has been rejected.

“(xii) Procedures for establishing the market value of
assets based upon standard market analysis, valuation,
and appraisal practices.

“(xili) Procedures requiring the timely evaluation of
purchase offers for an institution.

“(xiv) Procedures for bulk sales and auction market-
ing of assets.

‘(xv) Guidelines for determining if the value of an
asset has decreased so that no reasonable recovery is
anticipated. In such cases, the Corporation may con-
sider potential public uses of such asset including
providing housing for lower income families (including
the homeless), day care centers for the children of low-
and moderate-income families, or such other public
purpose designated by the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development.

“(xvi) Guidelines for the conveyance of assets to units
of general local government, States, and public agen-
cies designated by a unit of general local government or
a State, for use in connection with urban homes i
programs approved by the Secretary of Housing an
Urban Development under section 810 of the Housing
and Community Development Act of 1974.

“(xvii) Policies and Dyes for avoiding politi-
cal favoritism and undue influence in contracts and
decisions made by the Oversight Board and the
Corporation.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 369

“(15) TeRMINATION.—The Oversight Board shall terminate
not later than 60 days after the Oversight Board fulfills all of its
responsibilities under this Act.

“(b) RESOLUTION Trust CORPORATION ESTABLISHED.—

“(1) EsTABLISHMENT.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—There is hereby established a Corpora-
tion to be known as the Resolution Trust Corporation which
shall be an instrumentality of the United States.

“(B) Statrus.—The Corporation shall be deemed to be an
agency of the United States for p of subchapter II of
chapter 5 and chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code, when
it is acting as a corporation. The Corporation, when it is
acting as a conservator or receiver of an insured depository
institution, shall be deemed to be an agency of the United
States to the same extent as the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation when it is acting as a conservator or receiver of
an insured depository institution.

“(C) FDIC: As EXCLUSIVE MANAGER.—Immediately upon
enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989, the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation shall be authorized to and shall perform
all responsibilities of the Corporation, and shall continue to
do so unless removed pursuant to subsection (m).

“(2) GOVERNMENT CORPORATION.—Notwithstanding the fact
that no Government funds may be invested in the Corporation,
the Corporation shall be treated, for hago of sections 9105,
9107, and 9108 of title 31, United States Code, as a mixed-
ownership Government corporation which has capital of the
Government.

“(3) Dutres.—The duties of the Corporation shall be to carry
out a program, under the general oversight of the Oversight
Board and through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(or any replacement authorized pursuant to subsection (m)),
including:

“(A) To manage and resolve all cases involving depository
institutions—

“(i) the accounts of which were insured by the Fed-
eral Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation before
the enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989; and

“(ii) for which a conservator or receiver—

“(1) had been appointed at any time during the
period beginning on January 1, 1989, and ending
on the date of the enactment of such Act (including
any institution described in peregeape: (6)); or

‘(ID is appointed within the 3-year period begin-
ning on the date of the enactment of such Act.

“(B) To manage the Federal Asset Disposition Associa-
tion, subject to the provisions of subsection (f).

‘(C) To conduct the operations of the Corporation in a
manner which—

“(i) maximizes the net present value return from the
sale or other disposition of institutions described in
subparagraph (A) or the assets of such institutions;

“(ii) minimizes the impact of such transactions on
local real estate and financial markets;
103 STAT. 370

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(iii) makes efficient use of funds obtained from the
Funding Corporation or from the Treasury;

“(iv) minimizes the amount of any loss realized in the
resolution of cases; an

“(v) maximizes the preservation of the availability
and affordability of residential real property for low-
and moderate-income individuals.

“(D) To perform any other function authorized under this
section.

“(4) CONSERVATORSHIP, RECEIVERSHIP, AND ASSISTANCE
POWERS.—Except as provided in paragraph 6) and in addition to
any other provision of this section, the Corporation shall have
the same powers and rights to carry out its duties with respect
to institutions described in paragraph (8A) as the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation has under sections 11, 12, and 13
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act with respect to insured
depository institutions (as defined in section 3 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act).

(5) LIMITATION ON PARAGRAPH (4) POWERS.—The Corpora-
tion—

“(A) may not obligate the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation or any funds of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation; an

“(B) in connection with providing assistance to an institu-
tion under this subsection, shall subject to the limita-
tions contained in section 13(c\4) of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act.

“(6) SUCCESSOR TO FSLIC AS CONSERVATOR OR RECEIVER.—As of
the date of enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, the Corporation shall
succeed the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation as
conservator or receiver with respect to any institution for which
the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation was ap-

pointed conservator or receiver during the period beginning on
i anuary 1, 1989 and ending on such date of enactment.

“(7) OBLIGATIONS AND GUARANTEES.—The Corporation’s
authority to issue obligations and guarantees shall be subject to
general supervision by the Oversight Board under subsection (a)
and shall be consistent with subsection (j).

“(8) BOARD OF DIRECTORS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Exce yg as provided in subsection (m),
the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation shall serve as the Board of Di rs of the
Cor ration.

) CHAIRPERSON. eg a as } provinces in subsection (m),
the Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall serve as the Chair-
person of the Board of Directors of the Corporation.

“(C) CoMPENSATION.—Members of the Board of Directors
of the Corporation shall receive no pay, allowances, or
benefits from the Corporation by reason of their service on
the Board of Directors, but shall receive allowances in
accordance with subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United
States Code, for necessary expenses of travel, lodging, and
subsistence incurred in attending meetings and other
activities of the Board of Directors, as set forth in the
bylaws issued by the Board of Directors.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 371

“(9) Srarr.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Unless the Oversight Board exercises
its authority under subsection (m), the Corporation itself
shall have no employees.

“(B) UTILIZATION OF PERSONNEL OF OTHER AGENCIES.—

“(ij) FDIC.—The Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion, when acting as the exclusive manager of the
Corporation, s -_ to subsection (a)(6)) receive
reimbursement from the Corporation for all services
performed for the Corporation. Such reimbursement
may not exceed the actual and reasonable cost incurred
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in
performing such services.

“(ii) OTHER AGENCIES.—With the ment of any
executive department or agency, the Corporation may
utilize the personnel of any such executive department
or agency on a reimb le basis to cover actual and

reasonable expenses.
“(10) CorPORATE POWERS.—The Corporation shall have the
following powers:
“AY To adopt, alter, and use a corporate seal.

“(B) In the event the Oversight Board exercises its
authority under subsection (m), the Corporation shall pro-
vide for a chief executive officer, 1 or more vice presidents,
a secretary, a general counsel, a treasurer, and such other
officers, employees, attorneys, and agents as the Corpora-
tion may determine to be necessary, define the duties of
such officers or employees, and require surety bonds or
make other provisions against losses occasioned by acts of
such individuals.

‘“(C) To enter into contracts and modify, or consent to the
modification of, any contract or agreement to which the
Corporation is a party or in which the Corporation has an
interest under this section.

“(D) To make advance, progress, or other payments.

“(E) To acquire, hold, lease, mortgage, maintain, or dis-
pose of, at public or private sale, and personal prop-
erty, and otherwise exercise all the incidents of
ownership of property necessary and convenient to the
operations of the Corporation.

“(F) To sue and be sued in its corporate capacity in any
court of competent jurisdiction.

“(G) To deposit we securities or funds held by the Cor-
poration in any facility or depositary described in section
13(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act under the terms
and conditions applicable to the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation under such section 13(b) and pay fees thereof
and receive interest thereon.

“(H) To take warrants, voting and nonvoting equity, or
other participation interests in institutions or assets or
properties of institutions described in paragraph (8A) and

ph (11(AXiv).

“(1) To use the United States mails in the same manner
and under the same conditions as other departments and
agencies of the United States.

“(J) To prescribe through its Board of Directors bylaws
that shall be consistent with law.
103 STAT. 372

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(K) To make loans.

“(L) To prepare reports and provide such reports, docu-
ments, and records to the Oversight Board as required by
this section.

“(M) To issue capital certificates to the Resolution Fund-
ing Corporation consistent with the provisions of section
21B of this Act in the following manner:

“(j) AUTHORIZATION TO ISsUE.—The Corporation is
hereby authorized to issue to the Resolution Funding
Corporation nonvoting capital certificates.

“(ii) REQUIREMENT RELATING TO THE AMOUNT OF CER-
TIFICATES.—The amount of certificates issued by the
Corporation under clause (i) shall be equal to the aggre-

. gate amount of funds provided by the Resolution Fund-

ing Corporation to the Corporation under section 21B.

“(iii) CERTIFICATES MAY BE ISSUED ONLY TO THE RESO-
LUTION FUNDING CORPORATION.—Capital certificates
issued under clause (i) may be issued only to the Reso-
lution Funding Corporation in the manner and to the
extent provided in section 21B and this section.

“(iv) No pivipENDS.—The Corporation shall not pay
dividends on any capital certificates issued under this
section.

“(N) To exercise any other power established under this
section and such incidental powers as are necessary to
carry out its duties and functions under this section.

(11) SPECIAL POWERS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In addition to the powers of the Cor-
poration described in paragraph (10), the Corporation shall
have the following powers:

“(i) Contracts.—The Corporation may enter into
contracts with any person, corporation, or entity,
including State housing finance authorities (as such
term is defined in section 1301 of the Financial Institu-
tions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989)
and insured depository institutions, which the Corpora-
tion determines to be necessary or appropriate to carry
out its responsibilities under this section. Such con-
tracts shall be subject to the procedures adopted pursu-
ant to paragraph (12).

“(ii) UTILIZATION OF PRIVATE SECTOR.—In carrying out
the Corporation’s duties under this section, the
Corporation and the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration shall utilize the services of private persons,
including real estate and loan portfolio asset manage-
ment, property management, auction marketing, and
brokerage services, if such services are available in the
private sector and the Corporation determines utiliza-
tion of such services are practicable and efficient.

“(iii) MERGERS AND CONSOLIDATIONS.—The Corpora-
tion may require a merger or consolidation of an
institution or institutions over which the Corporation
has jurisdiction, if such merger or consolidation is
consistent with section 13(c)(4) of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 373

“(iv) ORGANIZATION OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—The
Corporation may organize 1 or more Federal savings
associations—

“(l) which shall be chartered by the Director of
the Office of Thrift Supervision,

“(ID the deposits of which, if any, shall be in-
sured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion through the Savings Association Insurance
Fund, and

“GID which shall operate in accordance with
subsection (e).

“(v) ORGANIZATION OF BRIDGE BANKS.—The Corpora-
tion may o 1 or more bridge banks pursuant to
subsection (i) of section 11 of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act with respect to any institution described in
parsersee (83XA) which becomes a bank. Such bridge

shall be subject to subsection (e).
“(B) REviEW OF PRIOR CasES.—The Corporation shall—

“(i) review and analyze all insolvent institution cases
resolved by the Federal Savi and Loan Insurance
Corporation between January 1, 1988, and the date of
enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recov-
ery: and Enforcement Act of 1989, and actively review

means by which it can reduce costs under existing
Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation
re relating to such cases, including restructur-

ing su “evafuate the

‘(ii) - te the costs under existing Federal Sav-
ings and Loan Insurance Corporation agreements with
regard to the following—

““(I) capital loss coverage,

“(II yield maintenance guarantees,

“(IID forbearances,

“(IV) tax consequences, and

“(V) any other relevant cost consideration;

“(ii) review the bidding procedures used in resolving
such cases in order to determine whether the bidding
= negotiating processes were sufficiently competitive;
an

“(iv) report to the Oversight Board and the Congress Reports.
pursuant to subsection (k).
The Corporation shall exercise any and all legal rights to
modify, ren poe or restructure such agreements where
savings wo be realized by such actions. The cost or
income of any modification shall be a liability or an asset of
the Corporation or the FSLIC Resolution d as deter-
mined by the Oversight Board. Nothing in this paragraph
shall be construed as granting the Corporation any legal
rights to m , renegotiate, or restructure agreements
between the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corpora-
tion and any other , which did not exist prior to the
date of enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989.
(12) REGULATIONS, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the review of the Oversight
Board, the Corporation shall adopt the rules, regulations,
standards, policies, procedures, guidelines, and statements
103 STAT. 374

Real property.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

necessary to implement the strategic plan established by
the Oversight Board under subsection (aX14). The Corpora-
tion may issue such rules, regulations, standards, policies,
procedures, guidelines, and statements as the Corporation
considers necessary or appropriate to carry out this section.

“(B) Review, etc.—Such rules, regulations, standards,
policies, rocedures, guidelines, and statements—

“(i) shall be provided by the Corporation to the Over-
sight Board promptly or prior to publication or
announcement to the extent practicable;

“(ii) shall be subject to the review of the Oversight
Board as provided in subsection (aX6\C); and

“(iii) shall be promulgated pursuant to subchapter II
of chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code.

“(C) PREPARATION AND MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS RELAT-
ING TO SOLICITATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF OFFERS.—The Cor-
poration shall—

“(i) document decisions made in the solicitation and
selection process and the reasons for the decisions; and

“(ii) maintain such documentation in the offices of
the Corporation, as well as any other documentation
relating to the solicitation and selection process.

“(D) DisTRESSED AREAS.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—In developing its implementing
policies, the Corporation shall take the action described
in clause (ii) to avoid adverse economic impact for those
real estate markets that are distressed.

“(ii) VALUATION AND DISPOSITION.—The Corporation
shall establish an appraisal or other valuation method
for determining the market value of real property.
With respect to a real p prepenty asset with a market
value in excess of a certain dollar limit (such limit to be
determined by the Board of Directors of the Corpora-
tion), consideration shall be given to the volume of
assets above such limit and the potential impact of
sales in such distressed areas. The Corporation shall
not sell a real property asset located in a distressed
area without obtaining at least the minimum disposi-
tion price, unless a determination has been made that
mie a transaction furthers the objectives set forth in

agrapn (EX).

Pet) CEPTION.—The provisions of this subpara-
graph shall not apply to any property as long as such
property is subject to the requirements of subsection

(c).
“(E) DEFINITIONS. —For the purposes of this subsection—

“(i) The term ‘minimum disposition price’ means 95
percent of the market value established by the Corpora-
tion. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, may
change the Percentage at forth in this definition from
time to time if the of Directors determines that
such change does not adversely impact the objectives
set forth in paragraph (3XC).

“(ii) The term ‘sell a real property asset’ means to
convey all title and interest in a piece of tangible real
property in which the Corporation has a fee simple or
equivalent interest. The term ‘real property’ does not
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 375

include loans secured by real property, joint ventures,
participation interests, options, or other similar in-
terests. In addition, the term ‘sell’ does not include
hypothecation of assets, issuance of asset backed securi-
ties, issuance of joint ventures, or participation in-
terests, or other similar activities.

“Gii), "The term ‘distressed area’ pean the Bd in Wy
areas in those political subdivisions d
time to time by the Board of fe ettoreca bs as having de-

pressed real estate markets. Until the Board of Direc-
Jak designates otherwise, such distressed areas shall be
the States of Arkansas, Colorado, Louisiana, New
Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas.

“(iv) The term ‘market value’ means the most prob-
able price which a Pai should bring in a competi-
tive and open market

“(T) all conditions requisite to a fair sale are
present,

“(I1) the buyer =3 ae are acting prudently
and are knowledgab

“(ID the price S por; affected by any undue
stimulus.

“(F) REAL ESTATE ASSET DIVISION.—The Corporation shall
establish a Real Estate Asset Division to assist and advise
the Corporation with respect to the ement, sale, or
other disposition of real copes assets of institutions de-
scribed in paragraph (3)(A). Real I Estate Asset Division Public _
shall have such duties as the Corporation establishes, information.
including the publication of an inventory of real property
assets of institutions subject to the j iction of the Cor-
poration. Such inventory shall be published before Janu-
ary 1, 1990 and updated semiannually thereafter and shall
identify properties with natural, cultural, recreational, or
scientific values of special significance.

“(13) PERIODIC FINANCING REQUESTS.—The Corporation shall
provide the Oversight Board with periodic financing requests
which shall detail—

“(A) anticipated funding requirements for operations,
case resolution, and asset liquidation,

“(B) anticipated Pi ie yments on previously issued notes,
guarantees, other obligations, and related activities, and

‘“(C) any proposed use of notes, guarantees or other
obligations.

Such financing requests shall be submitted on a quarterly basis
or such other period as the Oversight Board determines nec-
essary. Following approval by the Oversight Board, such re-
uests shall form the basis for expending funds provided by the
ury, for transferring funds from the Resolution Fundi
Corporation to the Corporation and the issuance of capi
certificates by the Corporation in exchange therefor.

“(14) FISCAL YEAR 1989 FUNDING.—

“(A) FUNDS FROM TREASURY.—The Secretary of the Treas-
sie, shall pe the Corporation with the sum of

800,000,000 in fiscal year 1989, and for such purpose the
Sectecyi is authorized to use as a public debt transaction
the proceeds of the sale of any securities hereafter issued
sivtor chapter 31 of title 31, United States Code.
103 STAT. 376 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(B) FUNDS FROM RESOLUTION FUNDING CORPORATION.—
The Resolution Funding Corporation shall provide the Cor-
ration with such sums authorized pursuant to section
1B(eX8) and the Corporation shall issue capital certificates

in exchange therefor.
Disadvantaged *“c) DISPOSITION OF ELIGIBLE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES.—
persons. “(1) Purpose.—The purpose of this subsection is to provide

homeownership and rental housing opportunities for very low-
income, lower-income, and moderate-income families.

“(2) RULES GOVERNING DISPOSITION OF ELIGIBLE SINGLE FAMILY
PROPERTIES.—

“(A) NoTICE TO CLEARINGHOUSES.—Within a reasonable
period of time after acquiring title to an eligible single
family property, the Corporation shall provide written
notice to clearinghouses. Such notice shall contain basic
information about the property, including but not limited to
location, condition, and information relating to the esti-
mated fair market value of the property. Each clearing-
house shall make such information available, upon request,
to other public agencies, other nonprofit organizations, and
qualifying households. The Corporation shall allow public
agencies, nonprofit organizations, and qualifying house-
holds reasonable access to eligible single family property
for purposes of inspection.

“(B) OFFERS TO SELL SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTIES TO NON-
PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS, PUBLIC AGENCIES, AND QUALIFYING
HOUSEHOLDS.—For the 3-month period following the date on
which the Corporation makes an eligible single family prop-
erty available for sale, the Corporation shall offer to sell the
property to (i) qualifying households, or (ii) public agencies
or nonprofit o izations that agree to (I) make the prop-
erty available for occupancy by and maintain it as afford-
able for lower-income families for the remaining useful life
of such property, or (II) make the property available for
purchase by such families. The restrictions described in
subclause rif of the preceding sentence shall be contained in
the deed or other recorded instrument. If upon the expira-
tion of such 3-month period, no qualifying household, public
agency, or nonprofit organization has made a bona fide
offer to purchase the property, the Corporation may offer to

Marketing. sell the property to any purchaser. The Corporation shall
actively market eligible single family properties for sale to
lower-income families.

“(3) RULES GOVERNING DISPOSITION OF ELIGIBLE MULTIFAMILY
HOUSING PROPERTIES.—

“(A) Notice TO CLEARINGHOUSES.—Within a reasonable
period of time after acquiring title to an eligible multifam-
ily housing property, the Corporation shall provide written
notice to clearinghouses. Such notice s contain basic
information about the property, including but not limited to
location, number of units (identified by number of bed-
rooms), and information relating to the estimated fair
market value of the property. The clearinghouses shall
make such information available, upon request, to qualify-
ing multifamily purchasers. The Corporation shall allow
qualifying multifamily purchasers reasonable access to an
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 377

eligible multifamily housing property for purposes of
ins on.

“(B) EXPRESSION OF SERIOUS INTEREST.—Qualifying multi-
family purchasers may give written notice of serious in-
terest in a proves during a period ending 90 days after the
time the ration provides notice under paragraph
(A), or until the Corporation determines that a property is
ready for sale, whichever occurs first. Such notice of serious
interest shall be in such form and include such information
as the Corporation may prescribe.

“(C) NoricE OF READINESS FOR sa Upon determini
that a property is ready for sale the Corporation
provide written notice to any qualifying multifamily pur-
chaser that has expressed serious interest in the property.
Such notice shall specify the minimum terms and condi-
tions for sale of the property.

“(D) OFFERS TO PURCHASE.—A qualifying multifamily pur-
chaser receiving notice in accordance with subparagraph
(C) shall have 45 days (from the date notice is received) to
make a bona fide offer to purchase a property. The Corpora-
tion shall accept an offer that complies with the terms and
conditions lished by the Corporation.
sage Sh aeeenah ak-alk dueling eae soetineed is «quailty:

percent welling units a ify-
ing multifamily under subparagraph (D) shall be
made available for occupancy by and maintained as afford-
able for lower-income families during the remaining useful
life of the property in which the units are located, ided
that not less than 20 percent of all units shall made
available for occupancy by and maintained as affordable for
very low-income ilies during the remaining useful life of
su roperty. If a single entity purchases more than 1
eligible property sph de of the same negotiation, the
requirements of this subparagraph shall apply in the aggre-
gate to the properties so purchased. The requirements of
this sub ph shall be contained in the deed or other
reco instrument.

“(F) SALE OF MULTIFAMILY PROPERTIES TO OTHER PUR-

“(i) If, upon the expiration of the period referred to in
subparagraph (B), no qualifying multifamily purchaser
has expressed serious interest in a property, the Cor-
poration may offer to sell the property, individually or
in combination with other properties, to any purchaser.

Py The Corporation may not ah combination
with other properties any property which a qualifying
multifamily purchaser has expressed serious interest in
purchasing individually.

: = If, upon bege peas of the period. referred to

in s , no qualifying multifamily pur-

chaser has made an cffer to purchase the property, the

Co tion may sell the property, individually or in

combination with other properties, to any purchaser.
“(G) EXEMPTIONS.—

“(ij) CONTINUED OCCUPANCY OF CURRENT RESIDENTS.—
No purchaser of an eligible multifamily housing pro
erty may terminate the occupancy of any person bass -
103 STAT. 378

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

ing in the property on the date of purchase for purposes
of meeting the lower-income occupancy uirement
applicable to the property under por age the (E). The
purchaser shall be in compliance with this paragraph if
each newly vacant dwelling unit is reserved for lower-
income occupancy until the lower-income occupancy
requirement is met.

“(ii) FINANCIAL INFEASIBILITY.—The Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development or the State housing
finance agency for the State in which the property is
located may temporarily oe the lower-income —
pancy requirements appli e to any property under
subparagraph (E), if the Secretary or the applicable
State housing finance agency determines that an
owner's compliance with such requirements is no
on, a financially feasible. The owner of the property
8. make - eg er effort phage bier ag 5
occupan the leve uired subparagrap A
and the Gesvelaer of Houle and Urban Development
or the State housing finance agency, as appropriate,
shall review the reduction annually to determine
whether financial infeasibility continues to exist.

(4) RENT LIMITATIONS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—With respect to properties under
subparagraph (B), rents charged to tenants for units made
available for occupancy by very-low income families shall
not exceed 30 percent of the adjusted income of a family
whose income equals 50 percent of the median income for
the area, as determined by the Secretary, with adjustment
for family size. Rents charged to tenants for units made
available for occupancy by lower-income families other
than very low-income families shall not exceed 30 percent
of the adjusted income of a family whose income equals 65
pa of the median income for the area, as determined

y the Secretary, with adjustment for family size.

“(B) Appiicasmity.—The rent limitations under this
paragraph shall apply to any eligible single-family property
sold pursuant to paragraph (2)(B\ii\D and to any multifam-
ily housing property sold pursuant to paragraph (3).

“(5) PREFERENCE FOR SALES.—When selling any eligible multi-
family housing property or combinations of eligible residential
properties, the Corporation shall give preference, among
substantially similar offers, to the offer that would reserve the
highest percentage of dwelling units for occupancy or purchase
by very low-income families and lower-income families and
would retain such affordability for the longest term.

“(6) FINANCING OF SALE.—

“(A) ASSISTANCE BY CORPORATION. —

“(i) SALE pricE.—The Corporation shall establish a
market value for each eligible ee The
Corporation shall sell eligible residential property at
the net realizable market value. The Corporation may
agree to sell an eligible single family property at a
price below the net realizable market value to the
extent necessary to facilitate an expedited sale of the
property and enable a lower-income family to purchase
the property. The Corporation may agree to sell eligible
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 379

residential property at a price below the net realizable
market value to the extent necessary to facilitate an
expedited sale of such property and enable a public
agency or nonprofit organization to comply with the
lower-income occupancy requirements applicable to
such property under paragraphs (2) and (3).

“(ii) PuRCHASE LOAN.—The Corporation may provide
a loan at market interest rates to the purchaser of
eligible residential property for all or a portion of the
purchase price, which loan shall be secured by a first or
second mortgage on the property. The Corporation may
provide such a loan at below market interest rates to
the extent necessary to facilitate an expedited sale of
eligible residential property and permit (I) a lower-
income family to purchase an eligible single family
property under paragraph (2); or (II) a public agency or
nonprofit organization to comply with the lower-
income occupancy requirements applicable to the
purchase of an eligible residential property under para-
graph (2) or (3). The Corporation shall provide such
loan in a form which would permit its sale or transfer
to a subsequent holder.

“(B) ASSISTANCE BY HUD.—The Secretary shall take such
action as may be necessary to expedite the processing of
applications for assistance under section 202 of the —

Act of 1959, the United States Housing Act of 1937, titl

of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance ‘Act, end
tion 810 of the Housing and am ar Development Act
of 1974, and the National Housing Act to enable any
organization or individual to purchase eligible residential

pro :
*(C) ANCE BY FMHA.—The Secretary of Agriculture
shall take such actions as may be necessary to expedite the
processing of applications for assistance under title V of the
Housing Act of 1949 to enable an Be irs oa or individ-
ual to purchase eligible residenti pets
“(7) CONTRACTING RULES.—Contracts ee into under this
oe i shall not be subject to the requirements of subsection
“(8) Usk OF SECONDARY MARKET AGENCIES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In the disposition of eligible residen-
tial properties, the Corporation shall, in consultation *with
the Secretary, explore opportunities to work with secondary
market entities to provide housing for lower- and moderate-
income families.

“(B) CreprIr ENHANCEMENT.—With respect to such Cor-
poration properties, the Secretary may, consistent with
statutory authorities, work through the Federal Housing
Administration, the Government National Mortgage
Association, the Federal National Mortgage Association,
the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and other
secondary market entities to develop risk sharing struc-
tures, mortgage insurance, and other credit enhancements
to assist in the provision of property ownership, rental, and
cooperative housing opportunities for lower- and moderate-
income families.
103 STAT. 380

PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989

“(C) Report.—In the annual report submitted by the
Secretary to the eigen jm the Secretary shall include a
detailed description of his activities under this paragraph,
including recommendations for such additional authoriza-
tion as he deems necessary to implement the provisions of
this subsection.

“(9) Derinitions.—For purposes of this subsection—

“(A) ADJUSTED INCOME.—The term ‘adjusted income’ has
the same meaning as such term has under section 3 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937.

“(B) CLEARINGHOUSES.—The term ‘clearinghouses’

“(i) the State housing finance agency for the State in
which an eligible residential property is located,

“(ii) the Office of Community Investment.(or other
comparable division) within the Federal Housing
Finance Board, and

“(iii) any national nonprofit organizations (including
any nonprofit entity established by the corporation
established under title IX of the Housing and Commu-
nity Development Act of 1968) that the Corporation
determines the capacity to act as a clearinghouse

for information.

“(C) CorpoRATION.—The term ‘Corporation’ means the
Resolution Trust Corporation either in its corporate capac-
ity or as receiver, but does not include the Corporation in
its capacity as an operating conservator.

2 ae ga ‘bed aapadd HOUSING PROPERTY.—The
term ‘eligible multifamily housing property’ means a prop-
erty consisting of more than 4 Swelling units—

“(i) to which the Corporation acquires title; and

“(ii) that has an appraised value that does not exceed
the applicable dollar amount set forth in section
221(dX3Xii) of the National Housing Act for elevator-
type structures (without regard to any increase of such
amount for high-cost areas).

“(E) ELIGIBLE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.—The term ‘eligible
residential property’ includes eligible single family prop-
erties and eligible multifamily housing properties.

“(F) ELIGIBLE SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY.—The term ‘eli-
gee single family property’ means a 1- to 4-family resi-

ence (including a manufactured home)—

“(i) to which the Corporation acquires title; and

“(ii) that has an appraised value that does not exceed
the applicable dollar amount set forth in the first
sentence of section 203(b\(2) of the National Housing
Act (without regard to any increase of such amount for
high-cost areas).

“(G) LOWER-INCOME FAMILIES.—The term ‘lower-income
families’ means families and individuals whose incomes do
not exceed 80 percent of the median income of the area
involved, as determined by the Secretary, with adjustment
for family size.

“(H) NET REALIZABLE MARKET VALUE.—The term ‘net
realizable market value’ means a price below the market
value that takes into account (i) any reductions in holdi
costs resulting from the expedited sale of a property, includ-
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 381

ing but not limited to foregone real estate taxes, insurance,
maintenance costs, security costs, and loss of use of funds,
and (ii) the avoidance, where applicable, of fees paid to real
estate brokers, auctioneers, or other individuals or
organizations involved in the sale of property owned by the
Cor ration.

NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION.—The term ‘nonprofit
organization’ means a private organization (including a
limited equity cooperative)—

“(i no  pok of the net earnings of which inures to the
benefit of any member, shareholder, founder, contribu-
tor, or individual; and

“(ii that is is approved by the Corporation as to finan-
cial responsibility.

“(J) PUBLIC AGENCY.—The term ‘public agency’—

“(i) means Federal, State, local, or other govern-
mental enti

“Gi) includes ae public spuning sapncy-

ALIFYING HOUSEHOLD e term ‘qualifying
household’ means a household (i) who intends to occupy
eligible single family property as a principle residence; and
(ii) whose adjusted income does not exceed 115 percent of
the median income for the area, as determined by the
Secretary, with adjustment for family size.

“(L) ALIFYING MULTIFAMILY PURCHASER.—The term
‘qualifying multifamily purchaser’ means (i) a public
agency, (li) a nonprofit o ization, or (iii) a for-profit
entity which makes a commitment (for itself or any related
pei to satisfy the lower-income occupancy requirements

ified under which an (3E) for any eligible multifam-

y property for her hip to purchase i . made during
or po the periods ed under paragraph (3).

“(M) RURAL AREA. Sethe term ‘rural area’ has the mean-
ee such term in section 520 of the Housing Act of

“(N) SecreTary.—The term ‘Secretary’ means the Sec-
retary of the Housing and Urban Development.

“(O) STATE HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY.—The term ‘State
housing finance agency’ means the public pe ag , author-
ity, corporation, or other instrumentality of a fh oa
has the authority to provide residential sh caso loan
financing throughout such State.

“(P) VERY LOW-INCOME FAMILIES.—The term ‘very-low
income families’ means families and individuals whose in-
comes do not exceed 50 percent of the median income of the
area involved, as determined by the Secretary, with adjust-
ment for family size.

“(10) EXcEpTion. y The provisions of this subsection shall not
apply whenever the Corporation as receiver contracts to sell all
or substantially all of the assets of a closed savings association
to an insured depository institution (as defined in section 3 of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act).

“(11) THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. —

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The provisions of this subsection, or
any failure by the ——— to comply with such provi-
sions, may not be any person to attack or defeat
any title to property once it is conveyed by the Corporation.

“cc
103 STAT. 382

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(B) LOWER-INCOME OCCUPANCY.—The lower-income occu-
pancy requirements wars under paragraphs (2) and (3)
shall be judicially enforceable against purchasers of prop-
erty under this subsection or their successors in interest by
affected very low- and lower-income families, State housing
finance agencies, and any agency, corporation, or authority
of the United States Government. The parties specified in
the preceding sentence shall be entitled to reasonable attor-
ney fees upon prevailing in any such judicial action.
‘(C) CLEARINGHOUSE.—A clearinghouse shall not be sub-
ject to suit for its failure to comply with the requirements
of this subsection.

“(d) NATIONAL AND REGIONAL Apvisory Boarps.—
“(1) NATIONAL ADVISORY BOARD.—

“(A) EsTABLISHMENT.—The Oversight Board shall estab-
lish a national advisory board to provide information to the
Oversight Board, and to advise that Board on policies and
programs for the sale or other disposition of real property
aie institutions which are described in subsection

“(B) MemsBersHip.—The national advisory board shall
consist of—

a a chairperson appointed by the Oversight Board;
an

“(ii) the chairpersons of any regional advisory boards
established pursuant to paragraph (2).

“(C) Meetincs.—The national advisory board shall meet
4 times a year, or more frequently if requested by the
Corporation.

“(2) REGIONAL ADVISORY BOARDS.—

“(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Oversight Board shall estab-
lish not less than 6 regional advisory boards to advise the
Corporation on the policies and programs for the sale or
other disposition of real property assets of institutions de-
scribed in subsection (bX8)(A). Such regional advisory
boards shall be established in any region where the Over-
sight Board determines that there exists a significant port-
folio of real property assets of institutions which are
described in subsection (bX3\A).

“(B) MEMBERSHIP.—

“(i) APPOINTMENT.—Each regional advisory board
shall consist of 5 members. Each member shall be
appointed by the Oversight Board and shall serve at
the pleasure of the Oversight Board. The members
shall be selected from those residents of the region who
will represent the views of low- and moderate-income
consumers and small businesses, or who have knowl-
edge and experience regarding business, financial, and
real estate matters.

“(ii) Terms.—Each member of a regional advisory
board shall serve a term not to exceed 2 years, except
that the Oversight Board may provide for classes of
members so that the terms of not more than 3 members
of any such board shall expire in any 1 year.

“(C) Mgeetincs.—Each regional advisory board shall meet
4 times a year, or more frequently if F reqtieatad by the
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 383

Corporation. A regional advisory board shall conduct its
meetings in its region.

“(3) PROHIBITION ON COMPENSATION.—Members of the na-
tional and regional advisory boards shall serve without com-
pensation, except that such members shall be entitled to receive
allowances in accordance with subchapter I of chapter 57 of title
5, United States Code, for necessary expenses of travel, lodging,
and subsistence incurred in attending official meetings and
other activities of the boards.

“(4) TREATMENT AS ADVISORY COMMITTEE AND TERMINATION OF
NATIONAL AND REGIONAL ADVISORY BOARDS.—

“(A) FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ACT.—The national
and be sag advisory boards shall be subject to the provi-
sions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act.

“(B) Termination.—Notwithstanding the provisions of
the Federal Advisory Committee Act, the national advisory
board and any regional advisory board established pursuant
to this subsection which is in existence on the date on
which the Corporation terminates shall also terminate on
such date.

“(e) INSTITUTIONS ORGANIZED BY THE CORPORATION.—

“(1) LIMITATIONS ON CERTAIN ACTIviTiEs.—All insured deposi-
tory institutions (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act) organized by the Corporation under this section
shall, during the period such institutions are within the control
of the Corporation, be subject to such limitations, restrictions,
and conditions as determined by the Corporation with respect to
the following activities:

“(A) Growth of assets.

“(B) Lending and borrowing activities.

“(C) Asset acquisitions.

“(D) Use of brokered deposits.

“(E) Payment of deposit rates.

“(F) Setting policy or credit standards.

“(G) Capital standards.

“(2) APPLICABILITY OF OTHER PROVISIONS OF LAW.—Except as
otherwise ee, all insured depository institutions (defined
in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) organized by
the Corporation shall—

“(A) be subject to all laws and rules otherwise applicable
to them as insured depository institutions, and

“(B) shall be subject to the supervision of the appropriate
Federal banking agency (as that term is defined in section 3
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act).

““(f) FADA.—Before the end of the 180-day period beginning on the
date of the enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recov-
ery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, the Corporation shall liquidate
the Federal Asset Disposition Association.

“(g) EXEMPTION From STaTE AND LocaL TaxaTion.—The Corpora-
tion and the Oversight Board, the capital, reserves, surpluses, and
assets of the Corporation and the Oversight Board, and the income
derived from such capital, reserves, surpluses, or assets shall be
exempt from State, municipal, and local taxation except taxes on
real estate held by the Corporation, ing to its value as other
similar property held by other persons is tax

“(h) GUARANTEES OF cC.—
103 STAT. 384

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(1) ASSUMPTION BY CORPORATION.—On the date of the enact-
ment of this section, the Corporation shall, by operation of law
(and without further action by the Corporation, the Oversight
Board, the Federal Housing Finance Board, the Federal Savings
and Loan Insurance Corporation, or any court), assume all
rights and obligations of the Federal Savings and Loan Insur-
ance Corporation with respect to any guarantee issued by the
Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation during the
period beginning on January 1, 1989, and ending on such date of
enactment, in connection with any loan to any savings associa-
tion by any Federal Reserve bank or Federal Home Loan Bank
(hereinafter in this subsection referred to as a ‘lender’).

“(2) PAYMENT BY CORPORATION.—Any obligation assumed by
the Corporation for any guarantee described in paragraph (1) to
any lender shall be paid by the Corporation before the end of
the 1-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this
section. Payment shall be made from funds or assets available
to the Corporation.

“(3) PRIORITY OF CLAIMS OF LENDERS.—Any claim by a lender
with respect to any obligation assumed by the Corporation for a
guarantee described in paragraph (1) shall have priority over all
other secured or unsecured obligations of the Corporation.

“(4) TREASURY BACKUP.—If the resources of the Corporation
are insufficient to pay all the obligations assumed by the Cor-

ration under paragraph (1) within the l-year period, the
Rctetare of the Treasury shall pay the amount of any such
deficiency. There are hereby appropriated to the Secretary for
fiscal year 1989 and each fiscal year thereafter, such sums as
may be necessary to pay such deficiency.

(ij) BoRROWING.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation, upon approval of the
Oversight Board, is authorized to borrow from the Treasury.
The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to loan
to the Corporation, on such terms as may be fixed by the
Secretary of the Treasury, an amount not exceeding in the

ate $5,000,000,000 outstanding at any one time.

“(2) INTEREST RATE.—Each such loan shall bear interest at a
rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into
consideration current market yields on outstanding marketable
obligations of the United States of comparable maturities.

“G) Maximum AMouNT LIMITATIONS ON OUTSTANDING OBLIGA-
TIONS.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
this section, the amount which is equal to—
“(A) the sum of—
“(i) the total amount of contributions received from
the Resolution Funding Corporation; and
“(ii) the total amount of outstanding obligations of
the Corporation; minus
“(B) the sum of—
“(i) the amount of cash held by the Corporation; and
“(ii) the amount which is equal to 85 percent of the
Corporation’s estimate of the fair market value of other
assets held by the Corporation,
may not exceed $50,000,000,000.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 385

“(2) OUTSTANDING OBLIGATION DEFINED.—For purposes of this
subsection (other than paragraph (3)), the term ‘outstanding
obligation’ includes—

“(A) any obligation or other liability assumed by the
Corporation from the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance
Corporation under this section or a emagg to any provision
of the Financial Institutions orm, Recovery, and
Enforcement Act of 1989;

“(B) any guarantee issued by the Corporation;

“(C) the total of the outstanding amounts borrowed from
o. Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to subsection (i);
an

“(D) any other obligation for which the Corporation has a
direct or contingent liability to pay any amount.

“(3) FULL FAITH AND CREDIT.—The full faith and credit of the
United States is pledged to the payment of any obligation issued
by the Corporation, with respect to both principal and interest,

“(A) the principal amount of such obligation is stated in
the obligation; and
“(B) the term to maturity or the date of maturity of such
obligation is stated in the obligation.
(4) TES OF COSTS OF CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

UIRED.—
“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation shall—
“(i) estimate the cost to such Corporation of any
contingent liability of the Corporation; and
“(ii) at least once each calendar quarter, make such
adjustment as is appropriate in the estimate of such
cost

“(B) INCLUSION IN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OUTSTAND-
ING OBLIGATIONS.—The estimated amount of the cost to the
Corporation of any contingent liability of the Corporation
(taking into account the most recent adjustment to such
estimate pursuant to paragraph (A\ii)) shall be—

“(i) treated as an outstanding obligation of the Cor-
poration for purposes of this subsection; and
“Gii) incl in any financial statement of the Cor-
poration.
“(k) REPORTING AND DisCcLOSURE OBLIGATIONS.—
“(1) Auprts.—

“(A) ANNUAL AuDIT.—The Comptroller General shall
audit annually the financial statements of the Corporation
in accordance with generally accepted Government auditing
standards unless the Comptroller General notifies the Over-
sight Board not later than 180 days before the close of a
fiscal year that the Comptroller General will not perform
such audit for that fiscal year. In the event of such notifica- Contracts.
tion, the Oversight shall contract with an independ-
ent certified public accountant to perform the annual audit
of the Corporation’s financial statement in accordance with
generally accepted Government auditing standards.

“(B) ACCESS TO BOOKS AND RECORDS.—AII books, records,
accounts, reports, files, and property belonging to or used
by the Corporation, or the Oversight or by an
independent certified public accountant retained to audit
103 STAT. 386 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989
the Corporation’s financial statement, shall be made avail-

able to the Comptroller General.
“(2) PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF TRANSACTIONS.—
Public “(A) DISCLOSURE REQUIRED.—Except as otherwise pro-
information. vided in this subsection, the Corporation shall make avail-
able to the public—

“(i) any agreement entered into by the Corporation
relating to a transaction for which the Corporation
Saetivary assistance pursuant to section 13(c) of the

ederal Deposit Insurance Act, not later than 30 days
after the meeting of the Oversight Board after
such agreement is entered into; and

“(ii) all agreements relating to cases reviewed by the
Corporation pursuant to subsection (b\11\B).

“(B) EXCEPTION FOR DISCLOSURES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
INTEREST.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The Oversight Board may withhold
from public disclosure any document or part of a docu-
ment if the Oversight Board determines, by a unani-
mous affirmative vote of the members of the Board,
that disclosure would be contrary to the public interest.

“(ii) REPORT OF DETERMINATION.—A written report
shall be made of any determination by the Oversight
Board to withhold any part of a document from public
disclosure pursuant to clause (i). Such report shall
contain a explanation of the specific reasons for
such determination.

“(iii) PUBLICATION AND SUBMISSION OF REPORT.—The
report prepared pursuant to clause (ii) shall be—

Federal “(D published in the Federal Register; and

on cre “(QD transmitted to the Committee on Banking,

P rons Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.

“(C) AGREEMENT DEFINED.—For purposes of this subsec-
tion, the term ‘agreement’ includes—

“(i) all documents which effectuate the terms and
conditions of the assisted transaction;

ech comparison, which the Corporation shall pre-

Oo —
“() the estimated cost of the transaction, with
“(ID the estimated cost of liquidating the insured
institution; and

“(iii) a description of any economic or statistical

assumptions on which such estimates are based.
“(3) DISCLOSURE TO CONGRESS OF TRANSACTIONS.—

“(A) PROSPECTIVE TRANSACTIONS.—The Corporation shall
make available to the Committee on Banking, Finance and
Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate any agreement ente into by the Corporation
relating to a transaction for which the Corporation provides
assistance pursuant to section 13(c) of the Federal Deposit
Insurance not later than 25 days after the first meeti
of the Oversight Board after such agreement is ente
into. The foregoing requirement is in addition to the Cor-
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 387

poration’s obligation to make such agreements publicly
available pursuant to paragraph (2).

“(B) PRIOR TRANSACTIONS.—The Corporation shall submit
a report to the Oversight Board and the Congress contain-
ing the results and conclusions of the review of the 1988
transactions conducted uant to subsection (b\11\(B) and
such recommendations for legislative action as the Corpora-
tion may determine to be appropriate.

“(4) ANNUAL REPORTS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Oversight Board and the Corpora-
tion shall annually submit a report of their respective
operations, activities, budgets, receipts, and expenditures
for the preceding 12-month period.

“(B) ConTEentTs.—The report required under subpara-
graph (A) shall include—

“@i) audited statements and such information as is
necessary to make known the financial condition and
operations of the Corporation in accordance with gen-
erally accepted accounting principles;

“(ii) the Corporation’s cial operating plans and
forecasts (including budgets, estimates of actual and
future spending, and estimates of actual and future
cash obligations) taking into account the Corporation’s
financial commitments, guarantees, and other contin-
gent liabilities;

“(iii) the spend of minority —_ women investors
participating in the bidding process for assisted acquisi-
tions and the disposition of assets and the number of
successful bids by such investors; and

“(iv) a list of the properties sold to State housing
finance authorities (as such term is defined in section
1301 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989), the individual purchase
prices of such properties, and an estimate of the pre-
mium paid by such authorities for such properties.

“(C) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS AND THE PRESIDENT.—The
Corporation shall submit each annual report required
under this subsection to the Co and the President as
soon as practicable after the end of the calendar year for
which such report is made but not later than June 30 of the
year following such calendar year.

“(5) ADDITIONAL REPORTS.—

“(A) REPORTS REQUIRED.—In addition to the annual report
required under et om (4), the Oversight Board and the
Corporation shall submit to Congress not later than April
S ee ee
report on the activities and efforts of tion, the
Federal = ays Insurance Corporation, and the Oversight
Board for 6-month period ending on the last day of the
month prior to the month in which such report is required
to be submitted.

“(B) CoNTENTS OF REPORT.—Each semiannual rt re-
quired under subparagraph (A) shall include the followi
information with respect to the Corporation’s assets an
liabilities and to the assets and liabilities of institutions
described in subsection (b\3)A):
103 STAT. 388

Reports.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(i) A statement of the total book value of all assets
held or managed by the Corporation at the beginning
and end of the reporting period.

“(ii) A statement of the total book value of such
assets which are under contract to be managed by
private persons and entities at the beginning and end
of the reporting period.

“(iii) The number of employees of the Corporation,
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the
Oversight Board at the beginning and end of the
reporting period.

‘(iv) The total amounts expended on employee wages,
salaries, and overhead, during such period which are
attributable to—
“() contracting with, supervising, or reviewing
the performance of private contractors, or
managing or disposing of such assets.

“(v) A statement of the total amount expended on
private contractors for the management of such assets.

“(vi) A statement of the efforts of the Corporation to
maximize the efficient utilization of the resources of
the private sector during the reporting period and in
future reporting periods and a description of the poli-
cies and procedures adopted to ensure adequate com-
petition and fair and consistent treatment of qualified
third parties seeking to provide services to the Corpora-
tion or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

“(vii) The total ook ¥ value and total proceeds from
such assets disposed of during the reporting period.

“(viii) Summary data on discounts from book value at
which such assets were sold or otherwise disposed of
during the reporting period.

“(ix) A list of all of the areas that carried a distressed
area designation during the reporting period (including
a justification for removal of areas from or addition of
areas to the list of distressed areas).

“(x) An evaluation of market conditions in distressed
areas and a description “ any changes in conditions
during the reporting —

“(xi) Any change adopted by the Oversight Board in a

minimum disposition price and the reasons for such

change.

“(xii) The valuation method or methods adopted by
the Oversight Board or the Corporation to value assets
and the reasons for selecting such methods.

“(6) APPEARANCES BEFORE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES.—
“(A) SEMIANNUAL APPEARANCE REQUIRED.—Not later than
30 days after submission of the semiannual reports required
by paragraph (5), the Oversight Board shall appear before

ittee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of

the House of Re ntatives and the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate to—

“(i) report on the progress made during such period
in resolving cases involving institutions described in
subsection (bX3)\A);
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 389

“Gi) provide an estimate of the short-term and long-
term cost to the United States Government of obliga-
ac _— or wane during such — as

“Gii) report on progress made du such period Reports.

selling assets of institutions duectibed to subsection
(bX3XA) and the impact such sales are having on the
local markets in which such assets are located;

“(iv) describe the costs incurred by the Corporation in
nairetby th obligations, managing and selling assets ac-

the Corporation;

“(y) pacdberd an estimate of the income of the Corpora-
tion from assets acquired by the Corporation;

“(vi) provide an assessment of any potential source of
additional fun funds for the eraapr yr and

“(vii de an estimate of the remaining exposure
of the Onited States Government in connection with

institutions described in subsection (bX(3)(A) which, in
the Oversight Board’s estimation, will assist-
ance or liquidation after the end of such period.
“(7) APPEARANCES CONCERNING START-UP OF CORPORATION.—
APPEARANCE REQUIRED.—Before January 31, 1990,
the Oversight Board and the Corporation shall appear
before the Committee on Banking, Finance and ea
Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee
S Banking, oe, and Urban Affairs of the Senate for

a in subparagraph (B).
iB) OF APPEARANCE.—In connection with the
appearance of the Ove t Board and the Corporation

by — , the Oversight Board and the
Corporation s

“(i) describe the strategic plan established for the
operations of the Corporation;

“(ii) describe the policies and procedures established
or proposed to be established Pfor the Corporation,
including specific measures taken to avoid political
favoritism or undue influence with respect to the
activities of the Corporation;

“iii) provide any regulation proposed to be pre-
sats by the apr geome s . iid

“(iv) provide the proposed case resolution e.

“() Power To REMOVE; JURISDICTION.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwi ing any other provision of
law, any civil action, suit, or proceeding to which the Corpora-
tion is a party shall be deemed to arise under the laws of the
United States, and the United States district courts shall have
original j jurisdiction over such action, suit, or

“(2) a AS PARTY.—The Corporation ‘be sub-
stituted as in any civil action, suit, or proceeding to
which is secant las Cabachel Nek & CRY WE Sampaet to
institutions which are subject to the management agreement
dated February 7, 1989, among the Federal Savi and Loan

Ree ee the Federal Home Loan Board
and the F Deposit Insurance Co tion.
(8) REMOVAL AND REMAND.—The nm may, without

bond or security, remove such action, suit, or
from a State ie to the United States District Sunt be ue
District of Columbia, or if the action, suit, or proceeding arises
103 STAT. 390

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

out of the actions of the Corporation with respect to an institu-
tion for which a conservator or a receiver has been appointed,
the United States district court for the district hese the
institution’s principal business is located. The removal of any
action, suit, or proceeding shall be instituted—
“(A) not later than 90 days after the date the Corporation
is substituted as a , or
“(B) not later 30 days after the date suit is filed
against the Corporation, if such suit is filed after the date of
enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989.
The bey arkng 9 may appeal any order of remand entered by a
United States district court.

“(m) INTERVENTION BY OVERSIGHT BOARD IN EXTRAORDINARY CIR-

CUMSTANCES.—

“(1) In _GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the Oversight Board has the ultimate authority to super-
vise the Corporation and is ultimately accountable for the
administration of the Corporation. The Oversight Board is au-
thorized to remove the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(or any replacement) from its position as exclusive manager of
the Corporation and from all of its responsibilities and authori-
ties to act for the Corporation, in any case where the Oversight
Board determines that any of the following extraordinary
events has occurred:

“(A) There has been a material failure of the Corporation
to adhere to the strategic plan developed pursuant to
subsection (a\(14).

“(B) There has been a material failure of the Corporation
to meet its financial goals, including over-commitment of
financial resources.

“(C) There is evidence of fraud, abuse, gross misman
ment in the Corporation’s programs or activities, or wil
cing of this Act or the Corporation’s policies or proce-

ures.

“(D) There is a continuing failure to obtain consideration
at least nearly equivalent to the market value of the assets
sold or otherwise transferred by the Corporation.

“(2) ProcepurE.—Any decisions made or action taken by the
Oversight Board under paragraph (1) shall be made or taken at
an open meeting of the Oversight Board and the Oversight
Board shall document its reasons for such actions or decisions.

“(3) NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESS.—Within 30 days of the meet-
ing of the Oversight Board described in paragraph (2) and not
later than 90 days before the removal of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation pursuant to paragraph (1), the Oversight
Board shall notify Congress of any decision made or action
taken pursuant to such paragraph and provide written docu-
mentation of its decision, including any supporting documenta-
tion relied on by the Oversight Board.

“(n) OPERATION OF CORPORATION AFTER EXERCISE OF POWERS

UNDER SUBSECTION (m).—If the Oversight Board exercises authority
under subsection (m), the Oversight Board shall—

“(1) develop an operations and management plan for the
Corporation, including a detailed description of the employment
and retention procedures for the Corporation and the classifica-
tion standards for employment positions for the Corporation
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 391

and the compensation rates and benefits established for each
class of positions, all of which shall be subject to the provisions
of subsection (a)(5);

“(2) select a Board of Directors and a chief executive officer
for the Corporation; and

“(3) provide to not later than 60 days before the
removal e} the Fede a, soeinced Corporation, the oper:
ations and managemen evelo ursuant to paragra
(1) and the identity of the Board of Dieters and the chief
executive officer selected pursuant to paragraph (2).

“(o) TERMINATION.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation shall terminate not later
than December 31, 1996. If at the time of its termination, the
Corporation is acting as a conservator or receiver, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall succeed the Corporation as
conservator or receiver.

“(2) CASE RESOLUTIONS TRANSFERRED.—Simultaneous with the
termination of the ae! yes as provided in ph (1), all
assets and liabilities of the Corporation shall be transferred to
the FSLIC Resolution Fund. Thereafter the FSLIC Resolution
Fund shall transfer any net proceeds from the sale of assets to
the Resolution Funding Corporation.

“(p) CONFLICT OF INTEREST.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—

“(A) The Oversight Board and the Corporation shall each
be an ‘agency’ for purposes of title 18, United States Code.
Any individual who, pursuant to a contract or any other
oreeneenet, performs functions or activities of the Over-
sight or the Corporation, under the direct super-
vision of an officer or eumoree of the Oversight Board or
the Corporation, shall be ed to be an employee of the
Oversight Board or the Corporation for the purposes of title x,

18, United States Code and this Act. :

‘“(B) Any individual who, pursuant to a contract or any
other agreement, acts for or on behalf of the Corporation
shall be deemed to be a public official for the purposes of
section 201 of title 18, United States Code.

“(2) ESTABLISHMENT OF RULES.—The Oversight Board and the Regulations.
Corporation shall, not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this subsection, promulgate rules and regulations
governing conflict of interest, ethical responsibilities, and post-
employment restrictions applicable to members, officers, and

py Sg of the Oversight Board and the Corporation that
8 no less stringent than those applicable to the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation.

“(3) Use OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.—The Oversight Regulations.
Board and the Corporation shall, not later than 180 days r
the date of enactment of this subsection, promulgate rules and
regulations applicable to independent contractors governing
conflicts of interest, ethical responsibilities, and the use of
confidential information consistent with the goals and purposes
of titles 18 and 41, United States Code.

“(4) Post EMPLOYMENT.—The chief executive officer of the
Corporation shall be prohibited for a period of 1 year after
leaving the ration from holding any office, position, or
employment with, or receiving remuneration from, a company
(other than the Corporation) which, during the time the chief
103 STAT. 392

Regulations.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

executive was employed by the Corporation, participated in any
case resolution or contract with the Corporation for which suc
person was either responsible or in which such person was
personally and substantially involved except that the chief
executive officer may hold any office, position, or employment
so long as the chief executive officer does not, during the 1-year
period, provide advice with respect to, participate in decisions
relating to, or otherwise provide assistance to such entity on the
enumerated matters or receive remuneration with respect
thereto from such company.

“(5) OTHER AGENCY EMPLOYEES.—Directors, officers, and
employees of the Oversight Board and the Corporation who are
also subject to the ethical rules of another agency or Govern-
ment Corporation shall file with the Corporation a copy of any
financial disclosure statement required by such other agency or
corporation.

“(6) DISAPPROVAL OF CONTRACTORS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Oversight Board shall prescribe
enon establishing procedures for ensuring that any
individual who is pe es" directly or indirectly, any
function or service on be of the Corporation meets
minimum standards of competence, experience, integrity,
and fitness.

“(B) PROHIBITION FROM SERVICE ON BEHALF OF CORPORA-
TION.—The procedures established under sub ph (A)
shall provide that the Corporation shall prohibit any person
who does not meet the minimum standards of competence,
experience, integrity, and fitness from—

“(i) entering into any contract with the Corporation;

or

“(Gii) being employed by the Corporation or any
poreen performing any service for or on behalf of the

rporation.

“(C) INFORMATION REQUIRED TO BE SUBMITTED.—The proce-
dures established under subparagraph (A) shall require
that any offer submitted to the Corporation by any person
under this section and any employment application submit-
ted to the Corporation by any person shall include—

“(i) a list and description of any instance during the
preceding 5 years in which the person or company
under such person’s control defaulted on a material
obligation to an insured depository institution; and

“Gi) such other information as the Board may pre-
scribe by regulation.

Pa sr geisha re gun VEN oO E sige submitted to -
rporation ma accep ess the offeror that
no person will ca employed, directly or indirectly, by the
offeror under any contract with the Corporation unless all
applicable information described in soprerearenh (C) with
to any such person is submitted to the p iekogpe
and the Corporation does not disapprove of the di or
indirect employment of such person. Any decision made by
the Corporation pursuant to this paragraph shall be in its
sole discretion and shall not be subject to review.

“(E) PROHIBITION REQUIRED IN CERTAIN CASES.—The stand-
ards established under subparagraph (A) shall require the
Corporation to prohibit any person who has—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 393

“(i) been convicted of any felony,

“(ii) been removed from, or prohibited from partici-
pating in the affairs of, any insured depository institu-
tion pursuant to any final enforcement action by any
appropriate Federal ing agency,

‘(iii) demonstrated a pattern or practice of defalca-
tion regarding obligations to insure depository institu-
tions, or

“(iv) caused a substantial loss to Federal deposit
insurance funds,

from service on behalf of the Corporation.

“(7) ABROGATION OF CONTRACTS.—The Oversight Board or the
Corporation may rescind any contract with a person who—

“(A) fails to disclose a material fact to the Oversight
Board or the Corporation,

“(B) would be prohibited under ich (6) from
providing services to, receiving fees from, or contracting
with the Corporation or the Oversight Board, or

“(C) has been subject to a final enforcement action by any
Federal bank regulatory agency.

“(8) PRIORITY OF OVERSIGHT BOARD RULES.—To the extent that
the rules established under this subsection conflict with rules of
other agencies or Government corporations, officers, directors,
employees, and indspendent contractors of the Corporation or
the Oversight Pie ge are also subject to the conflict of
interest or ethical rules of another agency or Government
corporation, shall be governed by the rules and regulations
established by the Oversight Board under this subsection when
acting for or on behalf of the Corporation.

“(9) DeFiniTions.—F or the purposes of this subsection—

“(A) The term ‘company’ has the same meaning as in
section 2(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.

“(B) The term ‘control’ has the same meaning given such
term under regulations promulgated by the Federal Home
Loan Bank Board with respect to savings and loan holding
companies as in effect on the day before the date of enact-
ment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and
Enforcement Act of 1989.

“(C) The term ‘Corporation’ includes the Resolution Trust
Corporation, the national advisory board, and the regional
advisory boards.”.

(b) Inspector GENERAL OF THE CORPORATION.—

(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—Section 11 of the Inspector General Act
of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended—

(A) in ph (1), by inserting “the Oversight Board
and the of Directors of the Resolution Trust Corpora-
tion” before “; as the case may be,”; and

(B) in paragraph (2), by inserting “the Resolution Trust
Corporation,” after “the Rai Retirement Board,’’.

(2) POSITION AT LEVEL IV OF THE EXECUTIVE SCHEDULE.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 5315 of title 5, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof:

“Inspector General, Resolution Trust Corporation.”’.

(B) APpRoPpRIATION.—There is hereby authorized to be
appropriated such sums as may be necessary for the oper-
103 STAT. 394 PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989

42 USC 1487.

12 USC 144la
note.

12 USC 1441b.

ation of the Office of Inspector General established by the
amendment made by paragraph (1) of this subsection.

(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 5.—Section 5313 of title 5,
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof:

“Independent Members, Oversight Board, Resolution Trust
Corporation.”’.

(d) Mrxep-OWNERSHIP GOVERNMENT CORPORATION.—Section
9101(2) of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
end thereof:

“(L) the Resolution Trust Corporation.”’.

(e) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO URBAN HOMESTEADING PROGRAM
AND Housinec Act or 1949.—

(1) URBAN HOMESTEADING.—Section 810(g) of the Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974 (12 U.S.C. 1706e(g)) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(3) The Secretary is authorized to reimburse the Resolution Trust
Corporation, in an amount to be agreed upon by the Secretary and
the Corporation, for property that the Corporation conveys to a unit
of general local government, State, or agency for use in connection
with an urban homesteading program approved by the Secretary.”.

(2) HoustnGc Act or 1949.—Section 517 of the Housing Act of
1949 (42 U.S.C. 1987) is amended by adding after subsection (m)
the following new subsection:

“(n) The Secretary may guarantee and service loans made for the
purchase of eligible senldential properties under section 21A(c) of
the Federal Home Loan Bank Act in accordance with subsection (d)
of this section and the last sentence of section 521(aX(1)(A).”’.

(f) GAO ExaMINnaTION oF CerTAIN FSLIC Resotutions.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of this Act, the Com = yaoee md General of
the United States shall examine and monitor all insolvent institu-
tion cases resolved by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance
Corporation from January 1, 1988, through h the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, and not later than April 30, 1990, shall report to
Congress with an estimate of the costs of the agreements entered
into by the Corporation pursuant to such resolutions. Not less than
annually thereafter, the last report being due on April 30, 1992, the
Comptroller General shall provide Congress with revisions to such
estimates, to take into account any new information that he obtains
with regard to such agreements.

Subtitle B—Resolution Funding Corporation

SEC. 511. RESOLUTION FUNDING CORPORATION ESTABLISHED.

(a) In GENERAL.—The Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C.
1421 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 21A the following
new section:

“SEC. 21B. RESOLUTION FUNDING CORPORATION ESTABLISHED.

“(a) Purpose.—The purpose of the Resolution Funding Corpora-
tion is to provide funds to the Resolution Trust Corporation to
enable the Resdtution Trust Corporation to carry out the provisions
of this Act.

“(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established a corporation to be
known as the Resolution Funding Corporation.

“(c) MANAGEMENT OF FUNDING CORPORATION.—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 395

“(1) Drrectorate.—The Funding Corporation shall be under
ae management of a Directorate composed of 3 members as
ollows:

“(A) The director of the Office of Finance of the Federal
Home Loan Banks (or the head of any successor office).

“(B) 2 members selected by the Oversight Board from
among the presidents of the Federal Home Loan Banks.

“(2) TERMS. the 2 members appointed under paragraph
(1B), 1 shall be appointed for an initial term of 2 years and 1
shall be appointed for an initial term of 3 F pogaie Thereafter,
such members shall be appointed for a term of 3 years.

“(3) Vacancy.—If any member leaves the office in which such
member was serving when appointed to the Directorate—

“(A) such member’s service on the Directorate shall
terminate on the date such member leaves such office; and

“(B) the successor to the office of such member shall serve
the remainder of such member’s term.

“(4) EQUAL REPRESENTATION OF BANKS.—No president of a
Federal Home Loan Bank may be appointed to serve an addi-
tional term on the Directorate until such time as the presidents
of each of the other Federal Home Loan Banks have served as
may terms as the president of such bank.

“(5) CHAIRPERSON.—The Oversight Board shall select the
chairperson of the Directorate from among the 3 members of
the Directorate.

“(6) STAFF.—

“(A) No PAID EMPLOYEES.—The Funding Corporation shall
have no paid employees.

“(B) Powrrs.—The Directorate may, with the approval of
the Federal Housing Finance Board authorize the officers,
employees, or agents of the Federal Home Loan Banks to
act for and on behalf of the Funding Corporation in such
manner as may be necessary to carry out the functions of
the Funding Corporation.

“(T) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—All administrative nem of the
Funding Corporation, a ees, shall be
paid by the Federal Home Loan ;

“(B) Pro RATA DISTRIBUTION.—The amount each Federal
Home Loan Bank shall pay under subparagraph (A) shall
be determined by the Oversight Board by multiplying the
total administrative expenses for any period by the percent-
age arrived at by dividing—

“(i) the ate amount the Oversight Board re-
quired such to invest in the Funding Corporation
(as of the time of such determination) under para-
graphs (4) and (5) of subsection (e) (computed without
regard to paragraphs (3) or (6) of such subsection); by

‘Gi) the te amount the Oversight Board re-

uired all Federal Home Loan Banks to invest (as of

e time of such determination) under such para-
graphs.

“(8) REGULATION BY OVERSIGHT BOARD.—The Directorate of the
Funding ey aot shall be subject to such regulations,
orders, and directions as the Oversight Board may prescribe.

“(9) No CoMPENSATION FROM FUNDING CORPORATION.—Mem-
bers of the Directorate of the Funding Corporation shall receive
103 STAT. 396 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

no pay, allowance, or benefit from the Funding Corporation for
serving on the Directorate.

“(d) Powers OF THE FUNDING CoRPORATION.—The Funding Cor-
poration shall have only the powers described in paragraphs (1)
through (9), subject to the other provisions of this section and such
in a orders, and directions as the Oversight Board may

rescri

“(1) Issur stock.—To issue nonvoting capital stock to the
Federal Home Loan Banks.

“(2) PURCHASE CAPITAL STOCK; TRANSFER AMOUNTS.—TOoO Soe
chase capital certificates issued by the Resolution Trust Cor-
pocetes under section 21A, and to transfer amounts to the

lution Trust Corporation pursuant to subsection (eX8) of
this section.

*(3) IssuE OBLIGATIONS.—To i issue sehen, bonds, or other
obligations, and to borrow, to give security for any amount
borrowed, and to pay interest on (and any redemption premium
with respect to) any such obligation or amount.

“(4) IMPOSE ASSESSMENTS.—To impose assessments in accord-
ance with subsection (e)7).

Pe ad CoRPORATE SEAL.—To adopt, alter, and use a corporate

“(6) Succession.—To have succession until dissolved.

“(7) Contracts.—To enter into contracts.

“(8) AUTHORITY TO SUE.—To sue and be sued in its corporate
capacity, and to complain and defend in any action brought by
or against the Funding Corporation in any State or Federal
court of competent jurisdiction.

“(9) INCIDENTAL POWERS.—To exercise such incidental powers
not inconsistent with the provisions of this section and section
21A as are necessary and appropriate to carry out the provi-
sions of this section.

“(e) CAPITALIZATION OF FUNDING CORPORATION, ETC.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—

“(A) AMOUNT REQUIRED.—The Oversight Board shall
ensure that the te of the amounts obtained under
this subsection s be sufficient so that—

“(i) the Funding Corporation may transfer the
amounts required under peregrers (8); and

“(ii) the total of the face amounts (the amount of
principal payable at —— of noninterest cipal
instruments in the Funding Corporation Princi
Fund are equal to the aggregate amount of principal on
the obligations of the Funding Corporation.

“(B) PURCHASES OF STOCK BY FEDERAL HOME LOAN
BANKS.—Each Federal Home Loan Bank shall purchase
stock in the Funding Corporation at times and in amounts
epg by the Oversight Board.

“(2) PAR VALUE; TRANSFERABILITY.—Each share of stock issued
by the Funding Corporation to a Federal Home Loan Bank shall
have a par value in an amount determined by the Oversight
Board and shall be transferable at not less than par value only
among the Federal Home Loan Banks in the manner and to the
extent prescribed by the Oversight Board.

(8) Waxsavne INVESTMENT AMOUNT LIMITATION FOR EACH FED-
ERAL HOME LOAN BANK.—The cumulative amount of funds
invested in nonvoting capital stock of the Funding Corporation
PUBLIC LAW 101-78—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 397

by each Federal Home Loan Bank under paragraph (1) shall not
at any time exceed the sum of the amounts calculated under
saan (A) and (B), as adjusted in subparagraph (C), as
‘ollows:

“(A) RESERVES AND UNDIVIDED PROFITS ON DECEMBER 31,
1988.—The sum on December 31, 1988, of—

“(j) the reserves maintained by such Bank pursuant
to the reserve requirement contained in the first 2
sentences of section 16 (as in effect on December 31,
1988); and

“(ii) the undivided poe of such Bank, minus the
amounts invested in the capital stock of the Financing
Corporation pursuant to section 21.

“(B) UENT ADDITIONS TO RESERVES AND UNDIVIDED
PROFITS.—The amount, calculated until the date on which
the Funding Corporation Principal Fund is fully funded,
equal to—

“(i) the sum of—

“(1 the amounts added to reserves by such Bank
after December 31, 1988, pursuant to the reserve
requirement contained in the first 2 sentences of
section 16 (as in effect on December 31, 1988); and

“(ID the quarterly additions to undivided profits
of the Bank after December 31, 1988; minus

“(ii) the amounts invested by such Bank in the cap-
ital stock of the Financing Corporation after Decem-
ber 31, 1988, pursuant to the requirement contained in
section 21.

ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT.—The amounts in subpara-
graph (B) shall be adjusted as follows:

“(i) INCREASE IN Limit.—If the aggregate amount for
subparagraph (BX) is lese than $800,000,000 per year,
8 is less ,000,000 per year,
the limit for each Bank shall be increased by an
amount determined by the ina Sg Board by mul-
pee faa 8 the aggregate deficiency by the percentage

app le to such Bank arrived at in the manner
described in paragraph (5).

“Gii) DECREASE IN LrmIr.—If the te amount for

Scdigaracta ne i than $300 000 000g —

is more ,000, r year,

the limit ie Sachi Wank Guall Ka Gettonsel by an

— a ined is Pigs Stebel gg by mul-

plyi excess by the percentage

applicable to cack Bank arrived at in the manner
described in paragraph (5).

“(4) PRO RATA DISTRIBUTION OF FIRST $1,000,000,000 INVESTED
IN FUNDING CORPORATION BY FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS.—Of
the first $1,000,000,000 of the aggregate that the Federal Hous-
ing Finance Board (pursuant to section 21) or the Oversight
Board (under this section) may require the Federal Home Loan
Banks collectively to invest in the capital stock of the Financing
Corporation or invest in the capital stock of the Funding Cor-
—— respectively, the amount which each Federal Home

Bank (or any successor to the Bank) shall invest shall be

determined by the Federal Housing Finance Board or the Over-
sight Board (as the case may be) by multiplying the aggregate

“
103 STAT. 398

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

amount of such investment by all Banks by the percentage
appearing in the following table for each such Bank:

Bank Percentage
Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston 1.8629
Federal Home Loan Bank of New York 9.1006
Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh 4.2702
Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta 14.4007
Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati 8.2653
Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis 5.2863
Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago 9.6886
Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines 6.9301
Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas 8.8181
Federal Home Loan Bank of Topeka 5.2706
Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco 19.9644
Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle 6.1422

“(5) Pro RATA DISTRIBUTION OF AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO BE
INVESTED IN EXCESS OF $1,000,000,000.—Of any amount which the
Oversight Board may require the Federal Home Loan Banks to
invest in capital stock of the Funding Corporation under this
subsection in excess of the $1,000,000, amount referred to in

ph (4), the amount which each Federal Home Loan

k (or any successor to such Bank) shall invest shall be

determined by the Oversight Board by multiplying the excess
amount by the percentage arrived at by dividing—

“(A) the sum of the total assets (as of the most recent
December 31) held by all Savings Association Insurance
Fund members which are members of such Bank; by

“(B) the sum of the total assets (as of such date) held by
all Savings Association Insurance Fund members which are
members of a Federal Home Loan Bank.

“(6) SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO MAXIMUM AMOUNT
LIMITATIONS. —

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If the amount of any Federal Home
Loan Bank’s allocation under paragraph (5) exceeds the
maximum amount applicable with res to such Bank (in
this paragraph referred to as a ‘deficient Bank’) under
paragraph 3 at the time of such determination (in this
paragraph referred to as the ‘excess amount’)—

“(i) the Oversight Board shall require each Federal
Home Loan Bank that is not allocated an amount
under paragraph (5) that exceeds its maximum under
paragraph (3) Gin this paragraph referred to as a
remaining Bank’) to purchase stock in the Funding

ration (in addition to the amount determined
under paragraph (5) for such remaining Bank and sub-
ject to the maximum amount applicable with respect to
such remaining Bank under pees ih (3) at the time
of such determination) on be of the deficient Bank
the amount determined under subparagraph (B);

“(ii) the Oversight Board shall require the deficient
Bank to subsequently reimburse the remaining Banks
out of its net i (or reimbursements received
from other Banks) in the manner described in subpara-
graphs (C) and (D); and

“(iii) the requirements contained in sub aph (D)
relating to the use of net earnings shall apply to the
deficient Bank until such Bank has reimbursed the
remaining Banks for all of the excess amount.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 399

“(B) ALLOCATION OF EXCESS AMOUNT AMONG REMAINING
FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The amount of stock each remain-
ing Federal Home Loan Bank shall be required to
oe under subparagraph (A\i) is the amount

etermined by the Oversight Board by multiplying the
excess amount by the percentage arrived at by divid-

“(I the cumulative amount of stock in the Fund-
ing Corporation purchased under this subsection
by such remaining Bank at the time of such deter-
mination; by

“ID on sguwagate of the cumulative amounts
invested is subsection by all remaining
Banks at such time.

“(ii) REALLOCATION.—If the allocation under this
subparagraph results in a remaining Bank exceeding
its maximum amount under ph (3), such excess
amount shall be realloca to the other remaining
Bank in accordance with this subparagraph.

“(C) REIMBURSEMENT PROCEDURE.—

“(ij) IN GENERAL.—A Bank on whose behalf stock is
purchased under subparagraph (Ai) shall make pay-
ments annually from amounts, if any, in its reserve
account (as described in subparagraph (D)) to each
Bank that made payments on its be until a full
reimbursement has been completed. A full reimburse-
ment shall require repayment of the excess amounts
invested by other Banks plus interest which shall
accrue at a rate equal to the annual average cost of
funds in the most recent year to all Federal Home Loan
Banks and which shall begin to accrue 2 years after the
investments under subparagraph (Ai) are made.

“Gii) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNTS.—The Oversight
Board shall annually determine the dollar amounts of
such reimbursements by distributing the amount avail-
able for such reimbursements (at the time of such
determination) from the reimbursing Bank to the
Banks that made purchases on its behalf according to
the shares of the reimbursing Bank’s excess amount
that the other Banks invested.

“(D) TRANSFER TO ACCOUNT FOR REIMBURSEMENTS RE-

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Of the net earnings for any year of
a Bank on whose behalf a purchase is e under
subparagraph (A\i) and any reimbursements received
from other Banks, the amount necessary to make the
reimbursements required under sub ph (A\ii)
shall be placed in a reserve account (established in the
manner prescribed by the Oversight Board), which
shall be available only for such reimbursements.

“Gi) LomrraTIon.— total amount placed in such
reserve account in any year by any shall not
exceed an amount equal to 20 percent of the net earn-
ings of such Bank for such

“(1) ADDITIONAL SOURCES.—If each Federal Home Loan Bank
has exhausted the amount applicable with respect to the Bank
103 STAT. 400

PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989

under paragraph (3) after purchases Bader, pareirephe (4), (5),
and (6), the amounts necessary to provide itional funding for
the Funding Corporation Principal Fund shall be obtained from

the a oe

“(A) MENTS.—The Funding Corporation, with the
approval of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, shall assess against each Savings
Association Insurance Fund member an assessment (in the
same manner as assessments are assessed against such
members by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
pursuant to section 7 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act)
except that—

“(i) the maximum amount of the aggregate amount
assessed shall be the amount of additional funds nec-
een? to fund the Funding Corporation Principal

“(ii) the sum of—

“(l) the amount assessed under this subpara-
graph; and
“(II) the amount assessed by the Financing Cor-
poration under section 21;
shall not exceed the amount authorized to be assessed
against Savings Association Insurance Fund members
oa to section 7 of the Federal Deposit Insurance
ct;

“(ii) the Financing Corporation shall have first prior-
ity to make the assessment; and

“(iv) the amount of the applicable assessment deter-
mined under such section 7 shall be reduced by the sum
described in clause (ii) of this subparagraph.

“(B) RECEIVERSHIP PROCEEDS.—To the extent the amounts
available pent to subparagraph (A) are insufficient to
fund the ding Corporation Principal Fund, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall transfer amounts to
the Funding Corporation from the liquidating dividends
and —. made on claims received by the FSLIC Reso-
lution d from receiverships.

“(8) TRANSFER TO RTC.—The Funding Corporation shall trans-
fer & hon Resolution Trust Corporation $1,200,000,000 in fiscal
ear f

“(f) OBLIGATIONS OF FUNDING CORPORATION.—

“(1) Issuance.—The Funding Corporation may issue bonds,
notes, debentures, and similar obligations in an aggregate
amount not to exceed $30,000,000,000. No obligation may be
issued under this paragraph unless, at the time of issuance, the
face amounts (the amount of principal poyenie at maturity) of
noninterest bearing instruments in the ding Corporation
Principal Fund are equal to the egy, i amount of principal
on the obligations of the Funding Corporation that will be
outstanding following such issuance.

“(2) INTEREST PAYMENTS.—The Funding Corporation shall pay
the interest due on such obligations from funds obtained for
such interest payments from the following sources:

“(A) EARNINGS ON CERTAIN ASSETS.—Earnings on assets of
the Funding Corporation which are not invested in the
Funding Corporation Principal Fund shall be used for in-
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

terest payments on outstanding debt of the Funding Cor-
poration.

“(B) PROCEEDS FROM RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION.—TO
the extent the amounts available pursuant to subparagraph
(A) are insufficient to cover the amount of interest pay-
ments, the Resolution Trust Corporation shall pay to the
Funding Corporation—

(i) the liquidating dividends and payments made on
claims received by the Resolution Corporation
from receiverships to the extent such proceeds are
determined by the Oversight Board to be in excess of
funds presently necessary for resolution costs; and

“Gi) wie y A from warrants and participations

y the Resolution Trust Corporation.

“(C) PAYMENTS BY FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS.—To the
extent the amounts available pursuant to subparagraphs
(A) and (B) are insufficient to cover the amount of interest
payments, the Federal Home Loan Banks shall pay to the
Funding "5500,000 00 each calendar year the aggregate
amount a $300,000,000 minus the amounts required in such
year for Financing Corporation principal payments (pursu-
ant to section 21) and the amounts required in such year by
the Funding Sid ea pursuant to ee (e). Each
Bank’s individual share of any amounts required to be paid
by the Banks under this subparagraph s be determined
as follows:

“(i) AMOUNTS UP TO 20 PERCENT OF NET EARNINGS.—
Each Federal Home Loan Bank shall pay an equal
percentage of its net earnings for the year for which
such amount is required to be paid, up to a maximum
of 20 percent of net earnings.

“(ii) AMOUNTS IN — OF 20 PERCENT OF NET EARN-
inGs.—If the te amount required to be paid by
the Federal Home Loan Banks under this subpara-
graph for any year exceeds 20 percent of the aggregate
— we sion of the Banks for such year, each Bank

percent of its net earnings | for such year as

pire’ se in tenes (i), and each Bank’s individual share

of the excess of the required amount over 20 percent of

the ate net earnings of the Banks for such year

shall be determined by dividing—

“(I) the average month-end level in the prior

ee r of advances outstanding by such Bank to

vings Associations Insurance Fund members; by

“(I the average month-end level in the prior

us ear of advances outstanding by all such to
vings Associations Insurance Fund members.

“(D) PROCEEDS FROM SALE OF ASSETS.—To the extent the
amounts available pursuant to subparagraphs (A), (B), and
(C) are insufficient to cover the amount of interest pay-
ments, the FSLIC Resolution Fund shall transfer to the
Funding Corporation any net proceeds from the sale of
assets received from the Resolution Trust Corporation,
which shall be used by the Funding Corporation to pay such
interest.

“(E) TREASURY BACKUP.—

103 STAT. 401
103 STAT. 402

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(i) IN GENERAL.—To the extent the amounts avail-
able pumusss to subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D) are
insufficient to cover the amount of interest payments,
the Secretary of the Treasury shall pay to the Funding
Corporation the additional amount due, which shall be

by the Funding Corporation to pay such interest.

“(ii) LIABILITY OF FUNDING CORPORATION.—In each
instance where the Secretary is required to make a
payment under this sub aph to the Funding Cor-
pmen the amount of the payment shall become a

iability of the Funding Corporation to be repaid to the

Secretary upon dissolution of the Funding Corporation
(to the extent the Funding Corporation may have any
remaining assets).

“(iii) APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS.—There are hereby
appropriated to the Secretary, for fiscal year 1989 and
each fiscal year thereafter, such sums as may be nec-
essary to carry out clause (i).

“(3) PRINCIPAL PAYMENTS.—On maturity of an obligation
issued under this subsection, the obligation shall be repaid by
the Funding Corporation from the liquidation of noninterest
oe instruments held in the Funding Corporation Principal

“(4) PROCEEDS TO BE TRANSFERRED TO RESOLUTION TRUST COR-
PORATION.—Subject to terms and conditions approved by the
Oversight Board, the proceeds (less any discount, plus any

remium, net of issuance costs) of any obligation issued by the
ing Corporation shall be used to—

“(A) purchase the capital certificates issued by the Reso-
lution Corporation under section 21A; or

“(B) refund any previously issued obligation the proceeds
of which were transfe in the manner described in
subparagraph (A).

“(5) INVESTMENT OF UNITED STATES FUNDS IN OBLIGATIONS.—
Obligations issued under this section by the Funding Corpora-
tion, at the direction of the Oversight Board shall be lawful
investments, and may be accepted as security, for all fiduciary,
trust, and public funta the investment or deposit of which shall
be under the authority or control of the United States or any
officer of the United States.

“(6) MARKET FOR OBLIGATIONS.—AIl persons having the power
to invest in, sell, underwrite, purchase for their own accounts,
accept as security, or otherwise deal in obligations of the Fed-
eral Home Loan ks shall also have the power to do so with
respect to obligations of the Funding Corporation.

“(7) TAX EXEMPT STATUS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in re
(B), obligations of the Funding Corporation shall be exempt
from tax both as to principal and interest to the same
extent as any obligation of a Federal Home Loan Bank is
exempt from tax under section 13 of this Act.

“(B) Exception.—The Funding Corporation, like the Fed-
eral Home Loan Banks, shall be treated as an agency of the
United States for purposes of the first sentence of section
3124(b) of title 31, United States Code (relating to deter-
mination of tax status of interest on obligations).

“(8) OBLIGATIONS NOT EXEMPT SECURITIES.—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 403

“(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of the laws administered
by the Securities and Exchange Commission, obligations of
the Funding Corporation—

“(i) shall not be considered to be securities issued or
guaranteed by a person controlled or supervised by, or
acting as an instrumentality of, the Government of the
United States; and

“(ii) shall not be considered to be ‘exempted securi-
ties’ within the meaning of section 3(a)(12\A)i) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except that such
obligations shall be considered to be exempted securi-
ties for purposes of section 15 of such Act.

“(B) AvuTHORITY OF commission.—Notwithstanding
ayy (A), the Securities and Exchange Commission
may; by rule or order, consistent with the public interest
and the protection of investors, exempt securities issued by
the Funding Corporation from the registration require-
ments of the Securities Act of 1933, subject to such terms
and conditions as the Commission may prescribe.

“(9) MINORITY PARTICIPATION IN PUBLIC OR NEGOTIATED OFFER-
inGs.—The Oversight Board and the Directorate shall ensure
that minority owned or controlled commercial banks, invest-
ment banking firms, underwriters, and bond counsels through-
out the United States have an opportunity to — toa
significant degree in any public or negotiated offering of obliga-
tions issued under this section.

(10) No FULL FAITH AND CREDIT OF THE UNITED STATES.—
Obligations of the Funding Corporation shall not be obligations
of, or cringe as to principal by, the Federal Home Loan
Bank toa the Federal Home Loan Banks, the United States,
or the lution Trust Corporation and the obligations shall so
plainly state. The Secretary shall pay interest on such obliga-
tions as required pursuant to this subsection.

“(g) Use AND Dispos!TIONn or Assets OF FunpING CorPORATION Nor
TRANSFERRED TO RESOLUTION TrusT CORPORATION.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to regulations, restrictions, and
limitations prescribed by the Oversight Board, assets of the
Funding Corporation which are not required to be invested in
capital certificates issued by the Resolution Trust Corporation
under section 21A and are not needed for current interest
gr shall be invested in direct obligations of the United

tates issued by the Secretary.

“(2) SEPARATE ACCOUNT FOR ZERO COUPON INSTRUMENTS HELD
TO ENSURE PAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL.—Except as provided in
subsection (e)(8), the Funding Corporation shall invest amounts
received pursuant to subsection (e) in, and hold in a separate
account to be known as the Funding Corporation Principal
Fund, noninterest bearing instruments—

“(A) which are direct obligations of the United States
issued by the Secretary; and

“(B) the total of the face amounts (the amount of prin-
cipal payable at maturity) of which is approximately equal

to the aggregate amount of principal on the obligations of
the Funding Corporation.
“(h) MISCELLANEOUS PrRovisIONS.—
“(1) TREATMENT FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.—Except as provided
in subsection (f(7\(B), the Funding Corporation s be treated
103 STAT. 404

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

as a Federal Home Loan Bank for purposes of section 13 (to the
extent such section relates to State, municipal, and local tax-
ation) and section 23.

“(2) FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AS DEPOSITARIES AND FISCAL
AGENTS.—The Federal Reserve banks are authorized to act as
depositaries for or fiscal agents or custodians of the Funding
Corporation.

(3) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS RELATING TO
GOVERNMENT CORPORATIONS.—The her Cope shall be
treated, for p of sections 9105, 9107, and 9108 of title 31,
United States e, as a mixed-ownership Government corpora-
tion which has capital of the Government.

“(4) JURISDICTION AND POWER TO REMOVE.—

“(A) FEDERAL COURT JURISDICTION.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, any civil action, suit, or proceeding
to which the Funding ration is a shall be
deemed to arise under the laws of the United States, and
the United States district courts shall have original juris-
diction over such action, suit, or proceeding.

“(B) Removat.—The Funding Corporation may, without
bond or security, remove any such action, suit, or proceed-
ing from a State court to the United States District Court
for the District of Columbia.

“(i) ANNUAL REPORT.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Oversight Board shall annually submit
a full report of the kom mem activities, budget, receipts, and
expenditures of the ding Corporation for the preceding 12-
month ee

“(2) Contents.—The report required under paragraph (1)
shall include—

“(A) audited statements and any information necessary
to make known the financial condition and operations of
the Funding Corporation in accordance with generally
accepted ag me principles;

“(B) the financial operating plans and forecasts (including
estimates of actual and future spending, and estimates of
actual and future cash obligations) of the Funding Corpora-
tion taking into account its financial commitments, guaran-
tees, and other contingent liabilities; and

“(C) the results of the annual audit of the financial
transactions of the Funding Corporation conducted by the
Comptroller General pursuant to section 9105(a) of title 31,
United States Code.

“(3) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS AND PRESIDENT.—The Oversight
Board shall submit each annual ap required under thi
subsection to the Co and the ident as soon as prac-
ticable after the end of the calendar year for which the report is
made, but not later than June 30 of the year following such
calendar year.

“(j) TERMINATION OF FUNDING CoRPORATION.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Funding Corporation shall be dis-
solved, as soon as practicable, after the maturity and full pay-
ment of all obligations issued by the Funding Corporation under
this section.

“(2) AUTHORITY OF OVERSIGHT BOARD TO CONCLUDE AFFAIRS OF
FUNDING CORPORATION.—FEffective on the date of the dissolution
of the Funding Corporation under paragraph (1), the Oversight
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 405

Board may exercise on behalf of the Funding Corporation any
power of the Funding Corporation which the Oversight Board
determines to be necessary to settle and conclude the affairs of
the Funding Corporation.

“(k) Derrnitions.—For purposes of this section:

“(1) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—The term ‘administrative
expenses’ does not include—

“(A) any interest on, or any redemption premium with
respect to, any obligation of the Funding Corporation; or

“(B) issuance costs.

“(2) CUSTODIAN FEE.—The term ‘custodian fee’ means—

“(A) any fee incurred by the Funding Corporation in
connection with the transfer of any security to, or the
maintenance of any security in, the segregated account
established under subsection (g); and

“(B) any other expense incurred by the Funding Corpora-
tion in connection with the pairs Bes ent or maintenance
of such account.

“(3) FUNDING CORPORATION.—The term ‘Funding Corporation’
means the Resolution Funding Corporation established in
subsection (b).

“(4) FUNDING CORPORATION PRINCIPAL FUND.—The term ‘Fund-
ing Corporation Principal Fund’ means the separate account
established under subsection (g)\(2).

“(5) IssuANCE Costs.—The term ‘issuance costs’—

“(A) means issuance fees and commissions incurred by
the Funding Corporation in connection with the issuance or
servicing of any obligation of the Funding Corporation; and

“(B) includes legal and accounting expenses, trustee and
fiscal and paying agent charges, costs incurred in connec-
tion with preparing and P ssggtie sn offering materials, and
advertising expenses, to extent that any such cost or
expense is incurred by the Funding Corporation in connec-
tion with issuing any eee

“(6) NET EARNINGS.—The term ‘net earnings’ means net earn-
ings without reduction for chargeoffs or expenses incurred by a
Federal Home Loan Bank for the purchase of capital stock of
the Financing Corporation or payments relating to the Funding
aaa required by the Oversight Board under subsections

e) and (f).

“(7) OVERSIGHT BOARD.—The term ‘Oversight Board’ means—

“(A) the Oversight Board of the Resolution Trust Cor-
poration under section 21A; and

“(B) after the termination of the Resolution Trust Cor-
porate the Secre f the Treasu

“(i) the tary of the :

“(ii) the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System; and

“(iii) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.

“(8) SAVINGS ASSOCIATION INSURANCE FUND MEMBER.—The
term ‘Savings Association Insurance Fund member’ means a
Savings Association Insurance member as such term is defined
by section 7(1) of the Federal eee Insurance Act.

“(9) SecreTary.—The term ‘ tary’ means the Secretary of
the Treasury.
103 STAT. 406

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(10) UNDIVIDED PROFITs.—The term ‘undivided profits’ means
oo tama retained after dividends have been paid minus the sum
re) —

“(A) that portion required to be added to reserves main-
tained pursuant to the first 2 sentences of section 16; and
“(B) the dollar amounts held by the respective Federal
Home Loan Banks in special dividend stabilization reserves
on December 31, 1985, as determined by the table set forth

in section 21(dX7).

“(1) Recutations.—The Oversight Board may prescribe any regu-

lations necessary to carry out this section.”

(b) FUNDING CORPORATION AS Mrxep-OwNeERsHIP GOVERNMENT

CoRPORATION.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 9101(2) of title 31, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new

sub ph:
“MD the Resolution Funding Corporation.”.
(2) ANNUAL GAO AUDIT.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9105(aX2) of title 31, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following
new sentence: “The Comptroller General shall audit the
Resolution Funding Corporation annually.

(B) CONFORMING AMENDMENT. —Section 9105(aX(2) of title
31, United States Code, is amended by striking ‘Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation and”.

SEC, 512. FINANCING CORPORATION.

Section 21 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441) is

amended—

(1) by striking ‘ ‘insured institution” each place it appears and
inserting “Savings Association Insurance Fund member”;
el?) Baw striking “Federal Home Loan Bank Board” and
each place they appear and inserting ‘Federal Housing
Finance ‘mance Beard”

(3) in subsection (cX2), by inserting before the period the
following: “prior to the date of the enactment of the Financial
Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989
and thereafter to transfer the proceeds of wh Ma epg issued
by the Financing Corporation to the FSLIC lution Fund”;

(4) in subsection (c\9) by striking ‘or section 402(b) of the
National Housing Act’;

(5) by amending the portion of subsection (d)(4) a ing
before the table to read as follows: “Of the first $1,000,000,000 in
the aggregate which the Oversight Board pee ec ‘to section
21B or the Federal Housing Finance under this section
(as the case may be) may require the Federal Home Loan Banks
collectively to invest in the stock of the Funding Corporation or
invest in the capital stock of the Financing Corporation, respec-
tively, the amount which each Federal Home Loan Bank (or any
successor to such Bank) shall invest shall be determined by the
Oversight Board or the Federal Housing Finance Board (as the
case may be) by multiplying the ate amount of such
payment or investment by Banks ee appear-
ing in the following table for each such Bank:”

(6) in subsection (d\5), by striking ‘$1,000, 000, 000 which the
Board” and inserting ‘“‘the $1,000,000,000 amount referred to in
paragraph (4) which the Federal Housing Finance Board”;
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 407

4 On subsection (d\6)AXiii), by striking “available for divi-

en

“ @) ip subsection (dX6\D), by striking “available for divi-
en

, () in subsection (d\6\E), by striking “available for divi-
en

(10) by striking subsection (d\6\F) and adding at the end of
sibunetion (1) the following:

(4) NET EARNINGS DEFINED.—The term ‘net earnings’ means
net earnings without reduction for any chargeoffs or expenses
incurred by a Bank in connection with the purchase of capital
stock of the Financing Corporation or the purchase of stock of
the Funding Corporation required by the Oversight Board
under subsections (e) and (f) of section 1B. 4

(11) in subsection (eX3XA)—

e striking “used used to”;

y rts “used to” before “purchase” and
i tband
(C) by ro before the semicolon the sy rior
to the enactment of the Financial Institutions orm,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, and thereafter
transferred to the FSLIC Resolution Fund”:
(12) i 7 rig qe (e)—

through h (2) and redesignating para-
ns sphe ) G0) a8 p ) as pelt de (2) through (9), respec-
ve gang

“sarge © as redesignated, by striking “the
Fedral ee d Loan Insurance Corporation” and

r paige Ic en grand a

y striking subsection and inse e fo

“(f) Sources or Funps ror IntTEREst P. Cocemtess Por ecoar Cor
PORATION ASSESSMENT AUTHORITY.—The Financing “sesh
shall obtain funds for anticipated interest payments, issuance costs,
and custodial fees on obligations issued hereunder from the follow-

sources:

(1) PREENACTMENT ASSESSMENTS.—The Financing Corpora-
tion assessments which were assessed on insured institutions
pursuant to this section as in effect prior to the date of enact-
ment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and
Enforcement Act of 1989.

“(2) NEW ASSESSMENT AUTHORITY.—To the extent the amounts
available nb tec to paragraph (1) are a to cover the
amount of interest payments, issuance costs, and custodial fees,
the Financing Corporation, with the approval of the Board of
Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, shall
assess against each Savings Association Insurance Fund
member an assessment (in the same manner as assessments are
assessed against such members by the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation under section 7 of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act), except that—

“(A) the sum of—
“(i) the amount assessed under this paragraph; and
“(ii) the amount assessed by the Funding Corporation
under section 21B;
shall not exceed the amount authorized to be assessed
against Savings Association Insurance Fund members pur-
suant to section 7 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act;
103 STAT. 408

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(B) the Financing Corporation shall have first priority to
make the assessment; and

“(C) the amount of the applicable assessment determined
under such section 7 shall be reduced by the sum described
in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph.

“(3) RECEIVERSHIP PROCEEDS.—To the extent the amounts
available pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) are insufficient to
cover the amount of interest payments, issuance costs, and
custodial fees, and if the funds are not required by the Resolu-
tion Funding Corporation to provide funds for the Fundin
Corporation Princi Fund under section 21B, the Feder:
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall transfer to the Financing
Corporation, from the li megs dividends and payments made
on claims received by the FSLIC Resolution Fund (established
under section 11A of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) from
receiverships, the remaining amount of funds necessary for the
Financing Corporation to make interest payments.”;

(14) in subsection (g\1) by striking ‘National Housing Act,”
and inserting ‘National Housing Act before the date of enact-
ment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and
Enforcement Act of 1989 and after such date in capital certifi-
cates issued by the FSLIC Resolution Fund,”;

(15) in subsection (g), by inserting the following at the end of
pessererh (2): “For pu of the foregoing, the Financing
rporation shall be deemed to hold noninterest i
instruments that it lends temporarily to primary United States
Treasury dealers in order to enhance market liquidity and
facilitate deliveries, provided that United States Treasury
securities of equal or greater value have been delivered as

collateral.”;

(16) in subsection (j), by striking subparagraph (A) of para-
graph (1) and inserting the following:

“(A) the maturity and full payment of all obligations
issued by the Financing Corporation pursuant to this sec-
tion; or”; and

(17) in subsection (J)—

(A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:

“(1) SAVINGS ASSOCIATION INSURANCE FUND MEMBER.—The
term ‘Savings Association Insurance Fund member’ means a
savings association which is a Savings Association Insurance
Fund member as defined by section 7(1) of the Federal Deposit
insurer bs Yee h (2) and red

y striking paragrap an esignating para-
graphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (2) and (3), venpentivaly.

TITLE VI—THRIFT ACQUISITION
ENHANCEMENT PROVISIONS

SEC. 601. A eiiace: OF THRIFT INSTITUTIONS BY BANK HOLDING
COMPANIES.

(a) In GENERAL.—Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of
1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843) is amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(ij) ACQUISITION OF SAVINGS “oa ping —

“(1) In GeNERAL.—The Board may approve an seentions by
any bank holding company a s su ion (cX8) to acquire
any savings association in accordance with the requirements
ona limitations of this section.

“(2) PROHIBITION ON TANDEM RESTRICTIONS.—In approving an
application by a bank holding company to acquire a savings
association, the Board shall not impose any restriction on trans-
actions between the savings association and its holding com-
pany affiliates, except as required under sections 23A and 23B
of the Federal Reserve Act or any other applicable law.”

(b) Mopirication oF Prior Approvats.—If the Board of Governors
hea ma Reserve pi sos in approving an Se teignasd by a

olding compan a savings association, any

restriction that woul ten el prohibited under section 4(i)(2) of
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (as added by subsection (a)
of this section) if that section had been in effect when the igre
tion was approved, the Board shall modify that approv.
manner consistent with that section.

SEC. 602. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE BANK HOLDING COMPANY
ACT.

(a) Derintrions.—Section 2(j) of the Bank Holding Company Act of
1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(j)) is amended to read as follows:
“(j) DEFINITION oF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS AND RELATED TERM.—
The term ‘sa association’ or ‘insured institution’ means—
“(1) any Federal sa association or Federal savings bank;
“(2) any building and loan association, sa and loan
association, homenttet 4 association, or cooperative if such
association or cooperative — is a member of the Savings
Association Insurance Fund; and
“(3) any savings bank or rative bank which is deemed by
the Director of the Office of of Thrift Supervision to be a savings
association under section 10(1) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act.”
(b) INsuRANCE REQUIRED.—Section 3(e) of the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(e)) is amended by striking ‘ ‘an
insured bank as defined in section 3(h)” and inserting “an insured
depository institution as defined in section 3”.

SEC, 603. PASSIVE INVESTMENTS BY COMPANIES CONTROLLING CERTAIN
NONBANK BANKS.

(a) In GenERAL.—Section 4(f(2A\ii) of the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(f(2A)ii)) is amended to read as
ollows:

“(ii) acquires control of more than 5 percent of the shares or
assets of an additional bank or a savings association other

“() shares held as a bona fide fiduciary (whether with or

without the sole discretion to vote such shares);
“(ID shares held by any person as a bona fide fiduciary
pee for ge benefit of employees of either the company
ph (1) or any subsidiary of that com-

poem the eficiaries of those employees;
Pee shares held temporarily pursuant to an underwrit-
"ad aaa in the normal course of an underwriting
usiness;

103 STAT. 409

12 USC 1843
note.
103 STAT. 410

PUBLIC LAW 101-78—AUG. 9, 1989

“(IV) shares held in an account solely for trading pur-

poses;

‘(V) shares over which no control is held other than
control of voting rights acquired in the normal course of a
proxy solicitation;

< loans or other accounts receivable acquired in the
normal course of business;

“(VII) shares or assets acquired in securing or collecting a
debt ey contracter, in faith, during the 2-year
peri is on the date of such acquisition or for such
additional time (not exceeding 3 years) as the Board =
permit if the Board determines that such an extension will
not be detrimental to the public interest;

“(VIII shares or assets of a savings association described
in paragraph (10) or (12) of this subsection;

“(IX) shares of a savi association held by any insur-
ance company, as defined in section 2(aX17) of the Invest-
ment Company Act of 1940, except as provided in
paragraph (11); and

“(X) s issued in a qualified stock issuance under
section .10(q) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act;

except that the aggregate amount of shares held under this
clause (other than under subclauses (D, (II), (IID, (IV), (V), and
(VIID) may not exceed 15 percent of all outstanding shares or of
the voting power of a savings association; or’.

(b) Tecun1caL AMENDMENTS.—

(1) Section 4(f(10) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956
(12 U.S.C. 1843(£)(10)) is amended—
Ww) by striking “and (ii)(V)’” and inserting “and (ii VIID”;

an

(B) in subparagraph (A), by inserting “or section 13(k) of
the oe Deposit Insurance Act” r “National Hous-
° ct”

ing >
(2) Section 4(f) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12
U.S.C. 1843(f)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
“(11) SHARES HELD BY INSURANCE AFFILIATES.—Shares de-
scribed in clause (iiXIX) of par ph (2A) shall not be ex-
cluded for a sce of clause (ii) of such ph if—

“(A) shares held under such clause (iiXITX) by all
insurance company affiliates of such savings association in
the aggregate exceed 5 percent of all outstanding shares or
of the voting power of the so a. association; or

“(B) such are acquired or retained with a view to
acquiring, exercising, or transferring control of the savings
association.’’.

SEC. 604. PURCHASE OF MINORITY INTEREST IN UNDERCAPITALIZED

SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS BY HOLDING COMPANIES ALLOWED.

(a) AMENDMENT TO Deposrrory INSTITUTION MANAGEMENT INTER-

Locks Act.—Section 205 of the Depository Institution ement
Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3204) is amended by adding at the end
thereof the following new paragraph:

(9) Any savings association (as defined in section 10(a)(1A)
of the Home Owners’ Loan Act or any savings and loan holding
company (as defined in section 10(a\(1\(D) of such Act) which has
issued stock in connection with a qualified stock issuance pursu-
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 411

ant fo section 10(q) of such Act, except that this paragraph shall
“ y only with respect to service as a single management

a of such savings association or holding company, or lord
pis Meet of such —— eee or holdi Srna ole bya
single gees geome oa oye of the savings and loan hol
company which purchased the stock issued in connection wit
such qualified stock ama and shall apply only when the
Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision determined that
such service is consistent swith the purposes of this Act and the
Home Owners’ Loan Act.”.

(b) AMENDMENTS TO BANK Houpine Company Act.—Section A(f) of
the —_ Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(f) is
amended—

(1) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraphs:

*(12) mela be pt esaiom a, ey 7 IED = ——.
TIONS.—For purposes 0 uses (i) and (ii paragra
(2XA), an insured institution is described in this paragraph if
the insured institution was acquired (or any shares or assets of
such a were acquired) by a company described in
paragraph (1)—

“(A) from the Resolution Trust Corporation, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the Sicector of the Office
of Supervision, in any Dire ge or

“(B) in an acquisition in w the insured institution has
been found to be in danger of default (as defined in section 3
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) by the appropriate
Federal or State authority.

“(13) SPECIAL RULE RELATING TO SHARES ACQUIRED IN A QUALI-
FIED STOCK ISSUANCE. Sei ep oe ® oe , in paragraph (1)
that holds shares issued in a stock issuance pursuant
to section 10(q) of the Home esi Loan Act by any savings
association or savings and loan holding company (neither of
which is a subsidiary) shall not be deemed to control such
savings association or savings and loan holding company solely
because such company holds such shares unless—

“(A) the company fails to comply with any requirement
or condition imposed by paragrap i ein or section
10(q) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act with respect to such
shares; or

“(B) ‘the shares are acquired or retained with a view to
acquiring, ‘exercising, or transferring control of the mvings
association or savings and loan holding company.”;

(2) in clause ae of h (2X A), by striking out “
(10)” and inserting a Tine ; tnerest “haraaranhs (10) or (12 =p

TITLE VII—FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK
SYSTEM REFORMS

Subtitle A—Federal Home Loan Bank Act
Amendments

SEC. 701. DEFINITIONS.

(a) In GENERAL.—Section 2 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act
(12 U.S.C. 1422) is amended—
103 STAT. 412

12 USC 1421 et
seq.

12 USC 1421 et
seq.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(1) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the
following:

“(1) Boarp.—The term ‘Board’ means the Federal Housing
Finance Board established under section 2A.

“(2(A) BANK.—The term ‘Federal Home Loan Bank’ or ‘Bank’
means a bank established under the authority of the Federal
Home Loan Bank Act.

“(B) BANK systeM.—The term ‘Federal Home Loan Bank
System’ means the Federal Home Loan Banks under the super-
vision of the Board.”’;

(2) in paragraph (4) by striking “(except when used in ref-
erence to the member of the Board)’; and

(3) by striking paragraph (9) and adding at the end the
following:

“(9) SAVINGS ASSOCIATION.—The term ‘savings association’ has
the meaning given to such term in section 3 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act.

“(10) CHAIRPERSON.—The term ‘Chairperson’ means the

irperson of the Board.

“(11) Secretary.—The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary
of Housing and Urban Development.

“(12) INSURED DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION.—The term ‘insured
depository institution’ means—

“(A) an insured depository institution (as defined in sec-
tion 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act), and

“(B) except as used in sections 21A and 21B, an insured
i pe (as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit

nion Act).”.

(b) CHANGE IN TERMS.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise specifically provided in
this title, the Federal Home Loan Bank Act is amended by
striking “board” (other than in section 7) and “Federal Home
Loan Bank Board” each place such terms appear and inserting

(2) CHAIRPERSON.—The Federal Home Loan Bank Act is
amended by striking “Chairman” and “chairman” each place
such terms appear and inserting “Chairperson” and “chair-
person”.

(3) Exceprions.—

(A) GENERAL RULE.—The amendments made by para-
graph (1) shall not apply to sections 18(c), 21A, and 21B of
the Federal Home Loan Bank Act.

(B) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 18(c) of the Fed-
eral Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1438(c)) is amended b y
striking “Federal Home Loan Bank Board’ and “board”
each place such terms appear and inserting ‘Director of the
Office of Thrift Supervision”.

(c) TecHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—Section 11 of the Federal Home

Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1431) is amended—

(1) in subsection (e2\(C), by inserting “Federal Home Loan”
before “Banks,”; and

(2) in the first. sentence of the third paragraph of subsection (i)
by inserting “Federal” before “Home Loan Bank System”.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 413

SEC. 702. FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE BOARD ESTABLISHED.

(a) In GeNERAL.—The Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C.
1421 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 2 the following
new sections:

“SEC, 2A. FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE BOARD. 12 USC 1422a.

“(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established the Federal Housing
Finance Board, which shall succeed to the authority of the
Federal Home Loan Bank Board with respect to the Federal
Home Loan "

“(2) Status.—The Board shall be an independent agency in
the executive branch of the Government.

“(3) Dutres.—The duties of the Board shall be—

“(A) to supervise the Federal Home Loan Banks,

“(B) to ensure that the Federal Home Loan Banks carry
out their housing finance mission,

“(C) to ensure the Federal Home Loan Banks remain
adequately ai and able to raise funds in the capital

ets, an

“(D) to ensure the Federal Home Loan Banks operate in a
safe and sound manner.

“(b) MANAGEMENT.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The management of the Board shall be
ee ee ee ee ee ee
ollows:

“(A) The Secretary who shall serve without additional
compensation.

“(B) Four citizens of the United States, appointed by the
President, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, each of whom shall hold office for a term of 7 years.

“(2) PROVISIONS RELATING TO APPOINTED DIRECTORS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The directors appointed pursuant to
paragraph (1B) shall be from among persons with exten-
sive experience or training in housing finance or with a
commitment to providing specialized housing credit. An
appointed director shall not hold ag Sharad appointed office
oaing or her term as director. Not more than 3 direc-

to be members of the same political party. Not more
than 1 appointed director shall be from any single district
of the Federal Home Loan Bank System. Nominations
ursuant to this subparagraph shall be referred in the
nate to the Committee on ing, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.

“(B) CoNSUMER REPRESENTATIVE.—At least 1 director
shall be chosen from an organization with more than a 2-
year history of representing consumer or secant in-
terests on banking services, credit needs, housing, or finan-
cial consumer protections.

“(C) LIMITATIONS ON CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.—No director

may—
“(i) serve as a director or officer of any Federal Home
Loan Bank or any member of any Bank; or
“(ii) hold shares of, or any other financial interest in,
* oa member of 7 such Bank. orn
- ITIAL TERMS.—Notwithstanding paragrap , of the
directors first appointed—
103 STAT. 414 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(A) one shall be appointed for a term of 1 year;
“(B) one shall be appointed for a term of 3 years; and
“(C) one shall be appointed for a term of 5 years.

“(c) CHAIRPERSON; TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.—

President of U.S. (1) IN GENERAL.—The President shall designate 1 of the
appointed directors to be the Chairperson of the Board. The
Chalenenion shall designate another director to serve as Acting
Chairperson during the absence or disability of the irperson.

“(2) TRANSITIONAL PROVISION.—Beginning on the date of
enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and
Enforcement Act of 1989, until such time that at least 2 direc-
tors are appointed and confirmed pursuant to subsection (b), the
Secretary shall act for all purposes and with the full powers of
the Board of Directors. The Secretary may utilize the services of
employees from the Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment to perform services for the Board of Directors during
such transition period.

“(d) VACANCIES.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Any vacancy on the Board of Directors
shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment
was made. Any director appointed to fill a vacancy occurring
before the expiration of the term for which such director’s
predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the
remainder of such term. Each director may continue to serve
until a successor has been appointed and qualified.

“(2) THE SECRETARY.—In the event of a vacancy in the office of
Secretary or during the absence or disability of the Secretary,
the Acting Secretary shall act as a director in place of the
Secretary.

12 USC 1422b. “SEC. 2B. POWERS AND DUTIES.

“(a) GENERAL Powers.—The Board shall have the following
powers:

“(1) To supervise the Federal Home Loan Banks and to
promulgate and enforce such regulations and orders as are
is from time to time to carry out the provisions of this

ct.

“(2) To suspend or remove for cause a director, officer, em-

loyee, or agent of any Federal Home Loan Bank or joint office.

e cause of such suspension or removal shall be communicated
in writing to such director, officer, employee, or agent and to
such or joint office. Notwithstanding any other provision
of this Act, no officer, employee, or agent of a Bank or joint
office shall be a Federal officer or employee under any defini-
tion of either term in title 5, United States Code.

“(8) To determine necessary expenditures of the Board under
this Act and the manner in which such expenditures shall be
incurred, allowed, and paid.

“(4) To use the United States mails in the same manner and
under the same conditions as a department or agency of the
United States.

“(b) STaFF.—

“(1) Boarp starr.—Subject to title IV of the Financial Institu-
tions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, the
Board may employ, di and fix the compensation and
number of emp ms , attorneys, and agents of the Federal
Housing Finance Board, except that in no event shall the Board
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 415

delegate any function to any employee, administrative unit of
any Bank, or joint office of the Federal Home Loan Bank
fvetons, The prohibition contained in the preceding sentence
shall not apply to the delegation of ministerial functions includ-
ing issuing consolidated obligations pursuant to section 11(b). In
and fixing such com  Pamatire ay the Board shall consult
with and maintain comparability with the compensation at the
Federal bank regulatory agencies. Such compensation shall be
paid without to the provisions of other laws eae to
officers or employees of the United States, gt the ———:
rson and other Directors shall be compensated re ene
in ti 5314 and 5315 of title 5, United States e, respec-
tive
“(By ABOLITION OF JOINT OFFICES.—The joint or collective of-
fices of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, except for the
Office of Finance, are hereby abolished.

“(c) RECEIPTS OF THE Boarp.—Receipts of the Board derived from
assessments levied upon the Federal Home Loan Banks and from
other sources (other than receipts from the sale of consolidated
Federal Home Loan Bank bonds and debentures issued under sec-
tion 11 of this Act) shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United
States. Salaries of the directors and other employees of the Board
and all other expenses thereof may be paid from such assessments
or other sources and shall not be construed to be Government Funds
or appropriated monies, or subject to yo sear og for the pur-
—_ of chapter 15 of title 31, "United tes Code, or any other
authority.

“(d) ANNUAL Report.—The Board shall make an annual report to
the Congress.”.

(b) Auprrs AND Reports.—Section 20 of the Federal Home Loan
Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1440) is amended by adding at the end the
following: “In addition to such examinations, the Comptroller Gen-
eral may audit or examine the Board and the Banks, to determine
the extent to which the Board and the Banks are fairly and effec-
tively fulfilling the parpees of this Act.”’.
wae General Act f 1978 GUS C. App.) i oa ded ty seoikion

pector Gene ct o ._pp.) 1s amen
“Federal Home Loan Bank Board,” and inserting ‘ rederel Housing
Finance Board,”’.

SEC. 703. TERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK BOARD.

(a) In GENERAL.—Section 17 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act
(12 U.S.C. 1487) is hereby repealed.

SEC, 704. ELIGIBILITY FOR MEMBERSHIP.

(a) InsurED Deposrrory INstrruTIONS.—Section 4(a) of the Federal
— Loan Bank Act (12 US.C. 1424(a)) is amended to read as
ollows:

“(a) CRITERIA FOR ELIGIBILITY.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Any building and loan association, savings
and loan association, cooperative bank, homestead association,
insurance company, savings bank, or any insured depository
institution (as defined in section 2 of this Act), shall be eligible
to become a member of a Federal Home Loan Bank if such
institution—

“(A) is duly organized under the laws of any State or of
the United States;
103 STAT. 416

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(B) is subject to inspection and regulation under the
banking laws, or under similar laws, of the State or of the

United States; and

“(C) makes such home mortgage loans as, in the judgment
of the Board, are long-term loans (except that in the case of

a savings bank, this subparagraph applies only if, in the

judgment of the Board, its time deposits, as defined in

section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, warrant its making
such loans).

“(2) QUALIFIED THRIFT LENDER.—An insured depository
institution that is not a member on January 1, 1989, may
become a member of a Federal Home Loan Bank only if—

“(A) the insured depository institution has at least 10
percent of its total assets in residential mortgage loans;
“(B) the insured depository institution’s financial condi-
tion is such that advances may be safely made to such
institution; and
“(C) the character of its management and its home-
financing policy are consistent with sound and economical
home financing.
An insured depository institution commencing its initial business
ame after January 1, 1989, may become a member of a
ederal Home Loan Bank if it complies with regulations and orders
prescribed by the Board for the 10 percent asset requirement (de-
scribed in the preceding sentence ) within one year after the
commencement of its operations.”’.
(c) REPEAL oF SECTION 27 —Section 27 of the Federal Home Loan
Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1447) is hereby repealed

SEC. 705, REPEAL OF PROVISION RELATING TO RATE OF INTEREST ON
DEPOSITS.

Section 5B of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1425b)
is hereby repealed.

SEC. 706. CAPITAL STOCK.

_— 6 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1426) is
amended—

(1) by striking subsections (a), (e), (f), and (g) and redesignating
subsections (b), (c), (d), (h), (i), @), (k), and (m) as subsections (a),
(b), Ga (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h), respectively;

(2) by striking the second sentence of subsection (e) (as re-
designated by paragraph (1) of this section) and inserting the
following: “If any member’s membership in a Federal Home
Loan Bank is terminated, the indebtedness of such member to
the Federal Home Loan Bank shall be liquidated in an orderly
manner (as determined by the Federal Home Loan Bank), and
upon completion of such liquidation, the capital stock in the
Federal Home Loan Bank owned by such member shall be
surrendered and canceled. cme such liquidation shall be deemed
a prepayment of any such indebtedness, and shall be subject to
any penalties or other fees applicable to such prepayment.”; and

(8) in ea (h) (as redesignated by paragraph (1) of this
a , by striking “charter” and all that follows through the
end period and inserting “charter as a Federal savings associa-
pees (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance

ct).”.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 417

SEC. 707. ELECTION OF BANK DIRECTORS.

Section 7 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1427) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking “appointed by the Federal Home Loan
Bank Board referred to in subsection (b) of section 17,
hereinafter in.this section referred to as the Board” and
inserting “appointed by the Board referred to in section

(B) by inserting after the last sentence the following: “At
least oy of the Federal Home Loan Bank directors who are
appointed by the Board shall be representatives chosen
from organizations with more than a 2-year history of
representing consumer or community interests on banking
services, credit needs, housing, or financial consumer
protections. No Federal Home Loan Bank director who is
appointed pursuant to this subsection may, during such
Bank s term of office, serve as an officer of any
Federal Home Loan Bank or a director or officer of any
member of a Bank, or hold shares, or any other financial
interest in, any member of a Bank.”;

(2) by inserting after the first sentence of subsection (b) the
following: “No person who is an pcan or director of a member
that fails to meet any applicable capital —— is a
to hold the office of Federal Home Loan

(3) by amending subsection (f) to read as —

“(f) VACANCIES.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—A Bank director appointed or elected to fill
a vacancy shall be appointed or sath for the unexpired term
of his or her predecessor in office.

“(2) APPOINTED BANK DIRECTORS.—In the event of a vacancy in
any appointive Bank directorship, such vacancy shall be filled
through appointment by the Board for the unexpired term. If
any appointive Bank director shall cease to have the qualifica-
tions set forth in subsection (a), the office held by such person
shall immediately become vacant, but such person may con-
tinue to act as a Bank director until his or her successor
assumes the vacated office or the term of such office expires,
whichever occurs first.

“(3) ELECTED BANK DIRECTORS.—In the event of a v eoeney in
any elective Bank directorship, such vacancy shall de filled by
an affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining Bank direc-
tors, regardless of whether such remaining Bank directors con-
stitute a quorum of the Bank’s board of directors. lipibaite
director so elected shall satisfy the requirements for eligib ed
which were applicable to his predecessor. If any elective
director shall cease to have any qualification set forth in this
section, the office held by such person shall immediately become
vacant, and such person shall not continue to act as a Bank
director.”; and

(4) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(k) INDEMNIFICATION OF DirEcTORS, OFFICERS, AND EMPLOYEES.—
The board of directors of each Bank shall determine the terms and
conditions under which such serene may indemnify its directors,
officers, employees or agen
103 STAT. 418

12 USC 1422,
1424.

12 USC 1426.

12 USC 1427,
1430.

12 USC 1431.

Regulations.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

SEC. 708. REPEAL OF PROVISIONS RELATING TO CERTAIN POWERS OF
THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK BOARD.

Section 19 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1489) is
hereby repealed.

SEC. 709. POWERS AND DUTIES OF BANKS.

—— 11 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1481) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (eX1), by inserting “incidental to activities”
after “not”;

(2) in subsection (f), by striking out “or whenever in the
judgment of at least 4 members of the board an emergency
exists requiring such action”;

(3) by amending subsection (k) to read as follows:

“(k) BanK Loans To SAIF.—

“(1) LOANS AUTHORIZED.—Subject to paragraph (3), the Fed-
eral Home Loan Banks may, upon the request of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation, make loans to such Corporation
for the use of the Savings Association Insurance Fund.

“(2) LIABILITY OF THE FUND.— loan by a Federal Home
Loan Bank pursuant to paragraph Q) sh i be a direct liability
of the Savings Association Insurance Fun

“(3) INTEREST ON AND SECURITY FOR os “LOANS.—Any loan by
a Federal Home Loan Bank pursuant to paragraph (1) shall—

“(A) bear a rate of interest not less than such Bank’s
current marginal cost of funds, taking into account the
maturities involved; and

“(B) be adequately secured.”’.

SEC. 710. ELIGIBILITY OF BORROWERS TO SECURE ADVANCES.

(a) In GENERAL.—Section 9 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act
(12 U.S.C. 1429) is amended by striking “or nonmember borrower”
in the first sentence.

(b) ConFORMING AMENDMENTS.—The Federal Home Loan Bank
Act (12 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.) is amended—

(1) in sections 2(5) and 4(b), by striking “or a nonmember
borrower” wherever it appears;

(2) in section 6(e) (as redesignated by section 706 of this Act),
by striking “or nonmember borrower” wherever it appears;

%(3) i in section 6(e) (as redesignated by section 706 of this Act),
by striking “or deprive any nonmember borrower of the privi-
lege of further advances,”

(4) in sections 7(j) and 10(c), by striking “or nonmember
borrower” wherever it appears;

(5) in section 10(c), by striking “, or made to a nonmember
borrower” in the second sentence; and

(6) in sections 11(g) and 11(h), by striking “or nonmember
borrowers” wherever it appears.

(c) Communtty Support. ion 10 of the Federal Home Loan
Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430) is amended by adding at the end the
following:

“(g) Community SuPpPpoRT REQUIREMENTS.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Before the end of the 2-year period begin-
ning on the date of enactment of the Financial Institutions
Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, the Board
shall adopt vequlations establishing standards of community
PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 419

investment or service for members of Banks to maintain contin-
ued access to long-term advances.

“(2) FACTORS TO BE INCLUDED.—The regulations promulgated
pursuant to paragraph (1) shall take into account factors such
as a member's performance under the Community Reinvest-
ment Act of 1977 and the member’s record of lending to first-
time homebuyers.”.

SEC. 711. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.

Section 18(b) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C.
1437(b)) is amended to read as follows: 12 USC 1438.
“(b) ASSESSMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Board may impose a semiannual
assessment on the Federal Home Loan Banks, the aggregate
amount of which is sufficient to provide for the payment of the
Board’s estimated expenses for the period for which such assess-
ment is made.

“(2) DericreNcres.—If, at any time, amounts available from
any assessment for any semiannual period are insufficient to
cover the expenses of the Board incurred in carrying out the
provisions of this Act during such period, the Board may make
an immediate assessment against the Banks to cover the
amount of the deficiency for such semiannual period.

“(3) Surpiuses.—If, at the end of any semiannual period for
which an assessment is made, any amount remains from such
assessment, such amount will be deducted from the assessment
on the Banks by the Board for the following semiannual period.

“(4) TRANSITION PROVISION.—On or after the effective date of
the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement
Act of 1989, the Board may levy a one-time special assessment
on the Banks pursuant to this subsection for the Board’s esti-
mated expenses for the transitional period resmg ing, eR ar
of such Act, if such assessment is made before the ’s first
semiannual assessment under paragraph (1).”.

SEC. 712. NONADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES,

Subsection (a) of section 18 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act
(12 U.S.C. 1438(a)) and section 19A of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1489-1) are
hereby repealed.

SEC. 713. FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN INSURANCE CORPORATION INDUS-
TRY ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

Subsection (i) of section 21 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
U.S.C. 1441) is repealed and subsections (j), (k), and (1) are redesig-
nated subsections (i), (j), and (k), respectively.

SEC. 714. ADVANCES.

(a) IN Sree une tink et of Scones br, the Federal Home
Loan Bank Act .C, is amen striking everything
after “members” to the end period and inserting the following:
“upon collateral sufficient, in the j ent of the Bank, to y
secure advances obtained from the under this section or
section 11(g) of this Act. All long-term advances shall only be made
for the p of providing funds for residential housing finance. A
Bank, at the time of origination or renewal of a loan or advance,
shall obtain and maintain a security interest in collateral eligible
pursuant to one or more of the following categories:
103 STAT. 420

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(1) Fully disbursed, whole first mortgages on improved resi-
dential property (not more than 90 days delinquent), or securi-
ties representing a whole interest in such mortgages.

“(2) Securities issued, insured, or guaranteed by the United
States Government or any agency thereof (including without
limitation, mortgage-backed securities issued or guaranteed by
the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, the Federal
National Mortgage Corporation, and the Government National
Mortgage Association).

“(3) Deposits of a Federal Home Loan Bank.

“(4) Other real estate related collateral acceptable to the
Bank if such collateral has a readily ascertainable value and
the Bank can perfect its interest in the collateral. The aggregate
amount of outstanding advances secured by such other real
estate related collateral shall not exceed 30 percent of such
member’s capital.

(5) P. pa (1) through (4) shall not affect the ability of
any Fede ome Loan Bank to take such steps as it deems
necessary to protect its security position with respect to
outstanding advances, including requiring deposits of additional
collateral security, whether or not such additional security
would be eligible to originate an advance. If an advance existing
on the date of enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 matures and the
member does not have sufficient eligible collateral to fully
secure a renewal of such advance, a Bank may renew such
advance secured by such collateral as the Bank and the Board
determines is appropriate. A member that has an advance
secured by such insufficient eligible collateral must reduce its
level of outstanding advances promptly and prudently in
accordance with a schedule determined by the Board.”’.

(b) Repucep Exicrsmiry ror ADVANCES.—Section 10(e) of the Fed-

eral Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(e)) is amended to read as
follows:

*(e) QUALIFIED Turirt LENDER STATUS.—

(1) In GENERAL.—A member that is not a qualified thrift
lender may only receive an advance if it holds stock in its
Federal Home Loan Bank at the time it receives that advance in
an amount equal to at least—

“(A) 5 percent of that member’s total advances, divided

by
“(B) such member’s actual thrift investment percentage.
Such members that are not qualified thrift lenders may only
apply for advances under this section for the purpose of obtain-
ing funds for housing finance.

(2) Priorrry.—The Board, by regulation, shall establish a
priority for advances to members that are qualified thrift lend-
ers. The aggregate amount of any Bank’s advances to members
that are not qualified thrift lenders shall not exceed 30 percent
of a Bank’s total advances.

(3) MINIMUM STOCK PURCHASE REQUIREMENT FOR MEMBER-
sHiIP.—Each member of a Federal Home Loan Bank shall, at a
minimum, purchase and maintain stock in its Federal Home
Loan Bank in the amount that would be required under section
6(b) if at least 30 percent of such member's assets were home

mortgage loans.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(4) Exceptions.—Paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection do
not apply to—

(A) a savings bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act; or

“(B) a Federal savings association in existence as a Fed-
eral savings association on the date of enactment of the
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement
Act of 1989—

“(i) that was chartered as a savings bank or coopera-
tive bank prior to October 15, 1982; or

“(ii) that acquired its principal assets from an institu-
tion which was chartered prior to October 15, 1982, as a
savings bank or cooperative bank under State law.

“(5) Dermnitions.—As used in this subsection—

“(A) SAVINGS ASSOCIATION.—The term ‘savings associa-
tion’ has the same meaning as in section 10(a)(1A) of the
Home Owners’ Loan Act.

“(B) QUALIFIED THRIFT LENDER.—The term ‘qualified
thrift lender’ has the same meaning as in section 10(m) of
the Home Owners’ Loan Act.

“(C) ACTUAL THRIFT INVESTMENT PERCENTAGE.—The term
‘actual thrift investment percentage’ has the same meaning
as in section 10(m) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act.”’.

(c) Speciau Liqumprry ADVANCES.—Section 10 of the Federal Home
Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430) (as amended by section 710(c) of this
Act) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(h) Speciat Liquiprry ADVANCES.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), the Federal Home
Loan Banks may, upon the request of the Director of the Office
of Thrift Supervision, make short-term liquidity advances to a
savings association that—

“(A) is solvent but presents a supervisory concern because
of such association’s poor financial condition; and

“(B) has reasonable and demonstrable prospects of
returning to a satisfactory financial condition.

“(2) INTEREST ON AND SECURITY FOR SPECIAL LIQUIDITY AD-
VANCES.—Any loan waft a Federal Home Loan Bank pursuant to
paragraph (1) shall be subject to all a Gv collateral
requirements, including the requirements of section 10(a) of this
Act, and shall be at an interest rate no less favorable than those
made available for similar short-term liquidity advances to
savings associations that do not present such supervisory
concern.”

SEC. 715. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO WITHDRAWAL FROM FEDERAL
HOME LOAN BANK MEMBERSHIP.

Section 6(h) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (as redesignated
by section 706 of this Act) is amended by striking “five” and
inserting “10”.

SEC, 716. REPEAL OF PROVISIONS RELATING TO LAWFUL CONTRACT
RATE.

Section 5 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1425) is
hereby repealed.

103 STAT. 421
103 STAT. 422 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

Classified
information.

Reports.

SEC. 717. BANK STOCK AND OBLIGATIONS,

Section 23 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1448) is
amended to read as follows:

“SEC. 23. FORMS OF BANK STOCK AND OBLIGATIONS.

“Any stock, debentures, bonds, notes, or other obligations issued
under the authority of this Act may be issued in uncertificated form,
utilizing a book entry method, or in certificated form under such
rules, tions, or guidelines as the Board of Directors of the
Federal Housing Finance Board may provide.”.

SEC. 718. THRIFT ADVISORY COUNCIL.

Section 8a of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1428a) is
hereby repealed.

SEC. 719. EXAMINATION OF MEMBERS,

Section 22 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1442) is
amended to read as follows:

“SEC. 22. MEMBER FINANCIAL INFORMATION.

“(a) In GeNERAL.—In order to enable the Federal Home Loan
Banks to carry out the B Aiphone of this Act, the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Chairman of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Chairperson
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Chairperson of
the National Credit Union Administration, and the Director of the
Office of Thrift Supervision, upon request by any Federal Home
Loan Bank—

“(1) shall make available in confidence to any Federal Home
Loan Bank, such reports, records, or other information as may
be available, relating to the condition of any member of any
Federal Home Loan Bank or any institution with respect to
which any such Bank has had or contemplates having trans-
actions under this Act; and

“(2) may perform through their examiners or other employees
or agents, for the confidential use of the Federal Home Loan

, examinations of institutions for which such agency is the

appropriate Federal banking regulatory agency.

In addition, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Chairman of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Chairperson
of the National Credit Union Administration, and the Director of
the Office of Thrift Supervision shall make available to the Board or
any Federal Home Loan Bank the financial reports filed by mem-
bers of any Bank to enable the Board or a Bank to compile and
publish cost of funds indices or other financial or statistical reports.

“(b) ConsENT BY Memspers.—Every member of a Federal Home
Loan Bank shall, as a condition precedent thereto, be deemed—

“(1) to consent to such examinations as the Bank or the Board
may require for the purposes of this Act;

“(2) to agree that reports of examinations by local, State, or
Federal agencies or institutions may be furnished by such
authorities to the Bank or the Board upon request; and

“(3) to agree to give the Bank or the Federal agency, upon
de rw such information as they may need to compile and
publish cost of funds indices and to publish other reports or
sasieecel summaries pertaining to the activities of Bank mem-

TS:
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 423

SEC. 720. LIQUIDITY.

Section 5A of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1425a)
is hereby repealed.

SEC. 721. AFFORDABLE HOUSING.

Section 10 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430) (as
amended by section 710 and section 714 of this Act) is amended by
adding at the end the following:

“(j) COMMUNITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Each Bank shall establish a program to
provide funding for members to undertake community-oriented
mortgage lending. Each Bank shall designate a perpen!
investment officer to implement pina ce Pay ag and afford-
able housing advance programs of the under this subsec-
tion and subsection (j) and provide technical assistance and
outreach to promote such programs. Advances under this pro-
om shall be priced at the cost of consolidated Federal Home

Bank obligations of comparable maturities, taking into
account reasonable administrative costs.

“(2) COMMUNITY-ORIENTED MORTGAGE LENDING.—For pu
of this subsection, the term ‘community-oriented mortgage lend-
ing’ means providing loans—

“(A) to finance home purchases by families whose income
does not exceed 115 percent of the median income for the

area,

“(B) to finance purchase or rehabilitation of housing for
occupancy by families whose income does not exceed 115
percent of median income for the area,

“(C) to finance commercial and economic development
activities that benefit low- and moderate-income families or
activities that are located in low- and moderate-income
neighborhoods, and

“(D) to finance projects that further a combination of the
purposes described in subparagraphs (A) through (C).

“(j) AFFORDABLE HousinGc ProGRAM.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Pursuant to tions promulgated by Disadvantaged
the Board, each Bank shall establish an Affordable Housing Persons.
Program to subsidize the interest rate on advances to members
engaged in lending for one term, low- and moderate-income,
owner-occupied and affordable rental housing at subsidized in-
terest rates.

“(2) Sranparps.—The Board’s regulations shall permit Bank
— to use subsidized advances received from the Banks

“(A) finance homeownership by families with incomes at
or below 80 percent of the median income for the area; or

“(B) finance the purchase, construction, or rehabilitation
of rental cer at least 20 percent of the units of which
will be occupied by and affordable for very low-income
households for the remaining useful life of such housing or
the mortgage term.

“(3) PRIORITIES FOR MAKING ADVANCES.—In using advances
authorized under paragraph (1), each Bank member shall give
priority to qualified projects such as the following:

(A) purchase of homes by families whose income is 80
percent or less of the median income for the area,
103 STAT. 424 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(B) purchase or rehabilitation of housing owned or held
by the United States Government or any agency or
instrumentality of the United States; and

“(C) purchase or rehabilitation of housing sponsored b
any nonprofit organization, any State or political subdivi-
sion of any State, any local housing authority or State
housing finance agency.

“(4) Report.—Each member receiving advances under this
program shall report annually to the k making such ad-
vances concerning the member's use of advances received under

“(5) CONTRIBUTION TO PROGRAM.—Each Bank shall annually
contribute the percentage of its annual net earnings prescribed
in the followi eae to support subsidized advances
through the Affordable er: Program:

“(A) In 1990, 1991, 1992, and 1993, 5 percent of the
peer. net income, or such prorated sums as ma

required to assure that the ate contribution of all
the Banks shall not be less than $50,000,000 for each such

year.
“(B) In 1994, 6 percent of the preceding year’s net income,
or such prorated sum as may be required to assure that the
aggregate contribution of the Banks shall not be less than
$75,000,000 for such year.
“(C) In 1995, and subsequent years, 10 percent of the
—— year’s net income, or such prorated sums as may
required to assure that the ate contribution of the
Banks shall not be less than $100,000,000 for each such

ear.
«@) GROUNDS FOR SUSPENDING CONTRIBUTIONS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If a Bank finds that the payments
required under this paragraph are contributing to the
financial instability of such Bank, it may apply to the
Federal Housing Finance Board for a temporary suspension
of such payments.

“(B) ANCIAL INSTABILITY.—In determining the finan-
cial instability of a Bank, the Federal Housing Finance
Board shall consider such factors as (i) whether the Bank’s
earnings are severely depressed, (ii) whether there has been
a substantial decline in membership capital, and (iii)
whether there has been a substantial reduction in advances
outstanding.

“(C) Review.—The Board shall review the application
and any supporting financial data and issue a written
decision approving or disapproving such application. The
Board’s decision s be accompanied by specific findings
and reasons for its action.

“(D) MONITORING SUSPENSION.—If the Board grants a
suspension, it shall specify the period of time such suspen-
sion shall remain in effect and shall continue to monitor
the Bank’s financial condition during such suspension.

“(E) LIMITATIONS ON GROUNDS FOR SUSPENSION.—The
Board shall not suspend payments to the Affordable Hous-
ing Program if the s reduction in earnings is a result
of (i) a change in the terms for advances to members which
is not justified by market conditions, (ii) inordinate operat-
ing and administrative expenses, or (iii) mismanagement.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 425

“(F) The Federal Housing Finance Board shall notify the
Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the
House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate not less than 60
days before such suspension takes effect. Such suspension
shall become effective unless a joint resolution is enacted
disapproving such suspension.

“(7) FAILURE TO USE AMOUNTS FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING.—If
any Bank fails to utilize or commit the full amount provided in
this subsection in any year, 90 percent of the amount that has
not been utilized or committed in that year shall be deposited by
the Bank in an Affordable Housing Reserve Fund administered
by the Board. The 10 percent of the unutilized and uncommitted
amount retained by a Bank should be fully utilized or commit-
ted by that Bank during the following year and any remaining

rtion must be deposited in the Affordable Housing Reserve

d. Under tions established by the Board, funds from
the Affordable Housing Reserve Fund may be made available to
any Bank to meet additional affordable housing needs in such
Bank’s district pursuant to this section.

“(8) Nger EARNINGS.—The net earnings of any Federal Home
Loan Bank shall be determined for purposes of this aph—

“(A) after reduction for any payment requi under
section 21 or 21B of this Act; and

“(B) before declaring any dividend under section 16.

“(9) ReGuLATIONS.—The Federal Housing Finance Board shall
promulgate ations to implement this subsection. Such
regulations s , at a minimum—

“(A) specify activities eligible to receive subsidized ad-
vances from the Banks under this program;

“(B) specify priorities for the use of such advances;

“(C) ensure that advances made under this Pag ag will
be used only to assist ig for which adequate long-term
monitoring is available to guarantee that affordability
standards and other requirements of this subsection are
satisfied;

“(D) ensure that a preponderance of assistance provided
under this subsection is ultimately received by low- and
moderate-income households;

“(E) ensure that subsidies provided by Banks to member
institutions under this program are passed on to the ulti-
mate borrower;

“(F) establish uniform standards for subsidized advances
under this program and subsidized lending by member
institutions supported by such advances, including maxi-
mum subsidy and risk limitations for different categories of
loans made under this subsection; and

“(G) coordinate activities under this subsection with
other Federal or federally-subsidized affordable housing
activities to the maximum extent ible.

“(10) OrHER PROGRAMS.—No provision of this subsection or
subsection (i) shall preclude any Bank from establishing addi-
tional community investment cash advance programs or
alae gla additional sums to the Affordable Housing Reserve

d.
“(11) Apvisory councit.—Each Bank shall appoint an Ad-
visory Council of 7 to 15 persons drawn from community and
108 STAT. 426

12 USC 1487
note.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

nonprofit organizations actively involved in providing or
promoting low- and moderate-income housing in its district. The
Advisory Council shall meet with representatives of the board
of directors of the Bank quarterly to advise the Bank on low-
and moderate-income perpen A ier 79 and needs in the dis-
trict and on the utilization of the advances for these purposes.
Each Advisory Council established under this A acting "i shall
submit to the Board at least annually its analysis of the low-
income housing activity of the Bank by which it is appointed.
“(12) REPORTS TO CONGRESS.—

“(A) The Board shall monitor and report annually to the
Congress and the Advisory Council for each Bank the sup-
port of low-income housing and community a by
the Banks and the utilization of advances for these pur-

poses.

“(B) The analyses submitted by the ree of Councils to
the Board under paragraph (11) shall be included as part of
the report required by this h.

“(C) The Comptroller General of the United States shall
audit and evaluate the Affordable Housing Program estab-
lished by this subsection after such program has been
operating for 2 years. The Comptroller General shall report
to Congress on the conclusions of the audit and recommend
improvements or modifications to the program.

“(13) Derrntrions.—For purposes of this subsection—

“(A) Low- OR MODERATE-INCOME HOUSEHOLD.—The term
‘low- or moderate-income household’ means any household
which has an income of 80 percent or less of the area

“(B) VERY LOW-INCOME HOUSEHOLD.—The term ‘very low-
income household’ means any household that has an
income of 50 percent or less of the area median.

“(C) Low- OR MODERATE-INCOME NEIGHBORHOOD.—The
term ‘low- or moderate-income neighborhood’ means any
neighborhood in which 51 percent or more of the house-
holds are low- or moderate-income households.

_ “(D) ihe pa FOR bagel cae per ice
or purposes 0: p e term ‘affo e for
very-low income housshalde means that rents charged to
tenants for units made available for occupancy by low-
income families shall not exceed 30 percent of the adjusted
income of a family whose income equals 50 percent of the
income for the area (as determined by the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development) with adjustment for
family size.”.
SEC. 722. TRANSFERRED EMPLOYEES OF FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS
AND JOINT OFFICES.

(a) In GENERAL.—Each employee of the Federal Home Loan Banks
or joint offices of such Banks performing a function identified for
transfer under section 403 of this Act, including employees who
otherwise would be ineligible for employment by the United States
because of their citizenship, shall be transferred for employment not
later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

(b) Norice To YEES.—Transferring employees shall receive
notice of their a not later than 120 days after the
effective date of their er
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 427

(c) GUARANTEED Posit10on.—Each transferred employee shall be
guaranteed a position with the same status and tenure as that held
by such employee on the day immediately preceding the transfer.
Each such employee holding a permanent position shall not be
involuntarily separated for one year after the date of transfer,
except for cause.

(d) Pay AND Benerirs.—Each employee transferred under this
section shall be entitled to receive, a one-year period
immediately following the transfer, pay an nefits comparable to
those received by such employee immediately preceding the trans-
fer. Where necessary or appropriate to further the safety and
soundness of the thrift industry, the employing agency may con-
tinue the —— compensation of ed erring employee
for up to 2 years beyond the expiration of the period provided for
under the preceding sentence. Such pay and benefits shall be subject
to the comparability provisions of this Act. Any transferred em-
ployee who suffers a reduction of pay or benefits as a result of such
comparability provisions shall be compensated for such reduction
during the 1 year period following the transfer by assessments from
the Federal Home Loan Bank or joint office of such Banks, from
which the employee transferred. In any event, this subsection shall
only apply to a transferred employee while such employee remains
with the agency to which the employee is transferred.

(e) Hearts INnsurAnce.—If the health insurance program of a
transferred employee is not continued by the agency to which the
employee is revabarend, such employee may elect to participate in
the agency’s health insurance program notwithstanding health
conditions pre-existing at the time of election or enrollment into an
alternate health insurance program of the agency to which he or she
is transferred and without regard to any other regularly scheduled
open season. Such election shall be made within 30 days of the
transfer.

(f) EquirasLE TREATMENT.—The Director of the Office of Thrift
Supervision or the Chairperson of the Federal Housing Finance
Board shall take such action as is necessary on a case-by-case basis
so that employees transferring under this section receive equitable
treatment regarding credit for prior service with a Federal entity or
instrumentality, or with a Federal Home Loan Bank or joint office
of such Banks, with respect to the transferring employees’ retire-
ment accounts and the transferring employees’ accrued leave or
vacation time, in recognition of the transferring employees’ super-
visory service.

(g) Specta, RuLE For CerTAIn ANNUITANTS.—An individual who
was a reemployed annuitant on July 26, 1989, and who is trans-
ferred under this section, shall not be subject to the deduction from
pay required by section 8344 or 8468 of title 5, United States Code,
during the l-year period beginning on the date of enactment of the
ee Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of

SEC. 723. TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS. 12 USC 1437

(a) FeperaL Home Loan Banks’ SHARE OF ADMINISTRATIVE Ex- i
PENSES.—The Federal Home Loan Banks shall pay to the Director of
the Office of Thrift Supervision the amount obtained by multiplying
the administrative expenses of the Office of Thrift Supervision
incurred in connection with functions of the Banks that are trans-
103 STAT. 428 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

ferred to the Office (less any fees or assessments collected by the
Office) by a fraction—

(1) the numerator of which is the amount of such expenses of
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and the Federal Savings
and Loan Insurance Corporation paid by the Banks during the
l-year period ending on the date of enactment of this Act; and

(2) the denominator of which is the total expenses of such
Board and Corporation during such period.

id are under this subsection is required after December 31,

(b) COMPENSATION OF SUPERVISORY AND EXAMINATIONS EMPLOY-
EES.—The Federal Home Loan Banks shall continue to pay the
compensation of employees of the Federal Home Loan Banks or the
joint offices of such banks who, on the day before the date of the
enactment of this Act, are performing supervisory and examination
functions until such supervisory and examination functions are
transferred under this Act. Thereafter, the obligation of the Federal
Home Loan Banks hereunder to pay such applicable compensation
shall continue until the later of—

(1) the date which is 120 days after the date of transfer of such
supervisory and examination functions to the Office of Thrift
Supervision, or

(2) March 31, 1990.

Payment of such compensation by the Federal Home Loan Banks
shall be in lieu of, and not in addition to, the payment of compensa-
tion by the Office of Thrift Supervision.

(c) Faciurtres AND Support Services.—Until December 31, 1990,
the Federal Home Loan Banks, as necessary, shall (with respect to
supervisory and examination functions performed by employees
transferred from the Federal Home Loan Banks or joint offices of
such Banks to the Office of Thrift Supervision), provide the Office of
Thrift Supervision facilities and support services comparable to
those presently provided for the employees of the Federal Home
Loan Banks or joint offices of such Banks performing such super-
visory and examination functions, including office space, furniture
and equipment, computer, personnel, and other support services.
With respect to supervisory and examination functions presently
performed by employees of individual Federal Home Loan Banks,
each such Bank will only be required to provide such facilities and
support services to the extent that the functions continue to be
performed in that Bank’s offices.

(d) Principat Supervisory AGENT.—Beginning on the date of
enactment of this Act until the Director of the Office of Thrift
Supervision shall otherwise provide, the Principal Supervisory
Agent for each Federal Home Loan Bank district shall be the senior
supervisory official (other than the President of the Federal Home
Loan Bank) employed by the Federal Home Loan Bank in such
district on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, and
such employees performing supervisory and examination functions
shall continue to be responsible for the supervision and examination
of savings associations within such district.

SEC. 724, FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK RESERVES.

(a) In GeNEeRAL.—Section 16(a) of the Federal Home Loan Bank
Act (12 U.S.C. 1436(a)) is amended—

(1) by striking the first three sentences and inserting in lieu

thereof: ‘Each Federal Home Loan Bank may carry to a reserve
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 429

account from time-to-time such portion of its net earnings as
may be determined by its board of directors.”; and

(2) by striking the fifth sentence and inserting the following:
“No dividends shall be paid except out of net earnings remain-
ing after reductions for all reserves, chargeoffs, purchases of
capital certificates of the Financing Corporation, and payments
relating to the Funding Corporation required under this Act
have been provided for, other than chargeoffs or expenses in-
curred by a Bank in connection with the purchase of capital
stock of the Financing Corporation under section 21 or pay-
ments relating to the Funding Corporation Principal Fund
under section 21B(e), and then only with the approval of the
Federal Housing Finance Board. inning on January 1, 1992, Effective date.
the preceding sentence shall be applied by substituting ‘pre-
viously retained earnings or current net earnings’ for ‘net

earnings. .
(b) Errective Date.—The amendment made by subsection (a1) 12 USC 1436

shall take effect on January 1, 1992. note.
SEC. 725. SPECIAL ACCOUNT. ia 1437
note,

At the time of dissolution of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board,
all such moneys and funds as shall remain in the special deposit
account of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, or other such
accounts, shall become the property of the Federal Housing Finance

Subtitle B—Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation

SEC. 731. FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION.

(a) SrATEMENT OF PuRPOSE.—
(1) In GENERAL.—Section 301 of the Federal Home Loan Mort-
Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1451 note) is amended—
(A) by inserting “(a)” after the section designation; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
“(b) It is the purpose of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Cor-
poration—
“(1) to provide stability in the secondary market for home
mortgages;
hes to respond appropriately to the private capital market;
an
“(3) to provide ongoing assistance to the secondary market for
home mortgages (including mo securing housing for low-
and moderate-income families involving a reasonable economic
return to the Corporation) by increasing the liquidity of mort-
gage investments and improving the distribution of investment
capital available for home mortgage financing.”’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The section heading for sec-
tion 301 of the Federal Home Loan Mo Corporation Act
(12 U.S.C, 1451 note) is amended to read as follows:

“SHORT TITLE AND STATEMENT OF PURPOSE”’.
(b) Boarp or Drrecrors.—
103 STAT. 430 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

District of
Columbia.

President of U.S.

12 USC 1452
note.

(1) New Boarp.—Section 303(a) of the Federal Home Loan
Mo e Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1452(a)) is amended to read
as follows:

“(aX(1) There is a created the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation, which shall be a aig, Ar sma under the direction of
a Board of Directors. Within the limitations of law and regulation,
the Board of Directors shall determine the general policies that
pi the operations of the Corporation. The principal office of the

rporation shall be in the District of Columbia or at any other
place determined by the Corporation.

“(2A) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall consist of
18 persons, 5 of whom shall be appointed annually by the President
of the United States and the remainder of whom s be elected
annually by the voting common stockholders. The Board of Direc-
tors shall at all times have as members appointed by the President
of the United States at least 1 person from the homebuildi
industry, at least 1 person from the mortgage lending industry, an
at least 1 person from the real estate industry.

“(B) Each member of the Board of Directors shall be such or
elected for a term ending on the date of the next annual meeting of
the voting common stockholders.

“(C) Any epecn ye seat on the Board of Directors that becomes
vacant shall be filled by appointment by the President of the United
States, but only for the unexpired portion of the term. Any elective
seat on the Board of Directors that mes vacant after the annual
election of the directors shall be filled by the Board of Directors, but
only for the unexpired portion of the term.

“(D) Any member of the Board of Directors who is a full-time
officer or employee of the Federal Government shall not, as such
member, receive compensation for services as such a member.”.

(2) TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.—
(A BOARD.—

(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—There shall be an interim Board
of Directors of the Federal Home Loan ape p ge Cor-
poration, which shall serve from the date of the enact-
ment of this Act until the date of the Ist meeting of the
voting common shareholders of the Corporation at
which the first election of the directors elected by the
shareholders occurs.

(ii) Mempers.—The interim Board of Directors of the
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation shall consist

of— :
(I) the President of the Corporation; and
(Il) the persons who were (on the day before the
date of the enactment of this Act) the irman of
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development (or
their designees).

(iii) QuoruM.—A quorum of the interim Board of
Directors of the Federal Home Loan Mo e Corpora-
tion shall consist of a majority of the di rs duly
serving from time to time.

(B) ELECTION OF PERMANENT DIRECTORS.—The first meet-
ing of the voting common shareholders of the Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Cosgeraiion for election of directors shall
occur, under p ures established by the Corporation,
within 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(c) ReGuLATORY Power.—Section 303 of the Federal Home Loan
Mo e Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1452) is amended— d
\ ) by yey ting seme ga (b) through (f) as subsections
(c) throug , respectively; an
(2) by inserting after siacation (a) the following new subsec-
tion:

“(bX1) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall
have general regulatory power over the Corporation and shall make
such rules and regulations as shall be necessary and proper to
ensure that the purposes of this title are accomplished.

*(2) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may re-
see that a reasonable portion of the mortgage purchases of the

rporation be related to the national goal of providing adequate
housing for low- and moderate-income families, but with reasonable
economic return to the Corporation.

“(3) The ageregate amount of cash dividends paid by the Corpora-
tion in any year on account of any share of its common stock
shall not exceed any rate that may be determined from time to time
by the Secretary of gene and Urban Development to be a fair
rate of return after consideration of the current earnings and
capital condition of the Corporation.

(4) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development my cal
ine and audit the books and financial transactions of the Corpora-
tion and may require the Corporation to issue any reports on its
activities that the Secretary determines to be advisable. The Sec-
retary shall, not later than June 30 of each year, submit to the
a a report describing the activities of the Corporation under

is Act.

“(5) The aggregate amount of notes, debentures, or substantially
identical types of unsecured obligations outstanding at any time
shall not exceed the amount which is 15 times the sum of the
ae gers capital, capital surplus, general surplus, reserves, and
undistributed earnings unless a greater ratio shall be fixed at any
time or from time to time by the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development. The outstanding total principal amount of any obiigs -
tions of the Corporation which are entirely subordinated to the
general oat 7 a ¢ ad — ~~ be coomes to be
capital of the Corporation for the purpose of determining the aggre-
gate amount of notes, debentures, or substantially identical types of
unsecured obligations outstanding at any time.

“(6) All issuances of stock, and debt obligations convertible into
stock, by the Corporation shall be made only with the approval of
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.

“(7(A) The exercise of the authority of the Corporation pursuant
to commitments or otherwise to purc , Service, sell, lend on the
security of, or otherwise deal in conventional residential mortgages
under section 305(a) shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary
of Housing and Urban Development.

“(B) Any conventional mortgage programs or activities with re-
spect to purchasing, servicing, selling, lending on the ay or
otherwise dealing in pie ayo in which the Corporation en-

aged or is engaging as of the date of the enactment of the Financial
Foetitutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 shall be
deemed to have been approved by the Secretary of Housing and
Urban aethgy, aee as required by this paragraph.

“(8) If the Corporation submits to the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development a request for approval or other action under

103 STAT. 431

Disadvantaged

Reports.

Reports.
103 STAT. 4382 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

12 USC 1453
note.

this title, the Secretary shall, not later than the expiration of the 45-
day period following the submission of the request, approve the

request or transmit to the Co a report explaining why the
pie rea has not been approved. The tod sai be extended for an
additional 15-day period if the requests additional

information from the Corporation, but the 45-day period may not be
extended for any other reason or for any period in addition to or
other than the 15-day period. If the Secretary fails to transmit the
report to the Congress within the 45-day period or 60-day period, as
the case may be, the Corporation may proceed as if the request had
been approved.”.
(d) Common Stocx.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 304(a) of the Federal Home Loan
Maree Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1453(a)) is amended to read
as follows:

“(aX1) The common stock of the Corporation shall consist of—

“(A) nonvoting common stock, which shall be issued only to
Federal home loan banks; and

“(B) voting common stock, which shall be issued to such
holders in the manner and amount, and subject to any limita-
tions on concentration of ownership, as may be established by
the Corporation.

“(2) The nonvoting common stock and the voting common stock
shall have such value and other characteristics as the Corpora-
tion provides. The voting common stock shall be vested with all
voting cb rr each share being entitled to 1 vote. The free transfer-
ability of the voting common stock at all times to any person, firm,
corporation or other entity shall not be restricted except that, as to
the Corporation, it shall transferable only on the ks of the
Corporation. Nonvoting common stock of the Corporation shall be
eridenced in the manner and shall be transferable only to the
extent, to the transferees, and in the manner, provided by the
Corporation.”.

(2) CONVERSION OF sTOCK.—On the date of the enactment of
this Act, each share of outstanding senior participating pre-
ferred stock of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation,
with a par value of $2.50 per share, shall be changed into and
shall become 1 share of voting common stock of the Corporation.
Such voting common stock , with respect to the nonvoting
common stock of the Corporation, retain all of the rights,
priorities and privileges of the senior participating preferred
stock. The transformation of the senior pertispents preferred
stock into voting common stock under this paragraph shall be
deemed to satisfy the obligation of the Corporation to redeem
— participating preferred stock for non-callable common
stoc.

(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—

(A) SUBSCRIPTIONS OF FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS.—Sec-
tion 304(b) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
Act (12 U.S.C. 1453(b)) is amended by inserting “nonvoting”
before “common”’.

(B) ALLOCATION OF SUBSCRIPTIONS.—Section 304(c) of the
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C.
1453(c)) is amended by striking “such” and by inserting
“nonvoting common” before “stock”.

C) RETIREMENT OF stock.—Section 304(d) of the Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C, 1453(d)) is
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 4383

amended by inserting “nonvoting common” before “stock”’
each place it appears.

(e) MorTGAGE OPERATIONS.—

(1) Prouisrrion ON FEES.—Section 305(a\(1) of the Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1454(a)(1)) is
amended by adding at the end the following: “Nothing in this
section authorizes the Corporation to impose any charge or fee
upon any mortgagee approved by the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development for participation in any mortgage insur-
ance program under the National Housing Act solely because of
such status.”’.

(2) LENDING ActTivities.—Section 305(a) of the Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1454(a)) is amended
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(5) The Corporation is authorized to lend on the security of, and
to make commitments to lend on the security of, any mortgage that
the Corporation is authorized to purchase under this section. The
volume of the Corporation’s lending activities and the establishment
of its loan ratios, interest rates, maturities, and charges or fees in its
secondary market operations under this paragraph, shall be deter-
mined by the Corporation from time to time; and such determina-
tions shall be consistent with the objectives that the lending activi-
ties shall be conducted on such terms as will reasonably prevent
excessive use of the Corporation’s facilities, and that the operations
of the Corporation under this paragraph shall be within its income
derived from such operations and that such operations shall be fully
self-supporting. The Corporation shall not be permitted to use its
lending authority under this paragraph (A) to advance funds to a
mortgage seller on an interim basis, using mortgage loans as collat-
eral, pending the sale of the mortgages in the secondary market; or
(B) to originate mortgage loans. Notwithstanding any Federal, State,
or other law to the contrary, the Corporation is hereby empowered,
in connection with any loan under this paragraph, whether before
or after any default, to provide by contract with the borrower for the
settlement or extinguishment, upon default, of any redemption,
equitable, legal, or other right, title, or interest of the borrower in
any mortgage or mortgages that constitute the security for the loan;
and with respect to any such loan, in the event of default and
pursuant otherwise to the terms of the contract, the mortgages that
constitute such security shall become the absolute property of the
Corporation.”’.

(f) REFERENCEs TO FSLIC anp FHLBB.—

(1) Section 302.—Section 302(b\(2) of the Federai National
Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1717(bX2)) is
amended—

(A) in the 4th sentence, by striking out “Federal Savings
and Loan Insurance Corporation” and inserting in lieu
thereof “Resolution Trust Corporation”; and

(B) in the 8th sentence, by striking out “Federal Home
Loan Bank Board” and inserting in lieu thereof “Federal
Housing Finance Board”.

(2) Section 305.—Section 305 of the Federal Home Loan
Moxteage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1454) is amended—

(A) by striking out “Federal Savings and Loan Insurance
Corporation” each place it appears and inserting in lieu
thereof ‘Resolution Trust Corporation”; and
103 STAT. 434 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(B) in subsection (aX2), by striking out ‘Federal Home
Loan Bank Board” and inserting in lieu thereof “Federal
Housing Finance Board”.
(g) STANDBY 1T.—Section 306(c) of the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1455(c)) is amended to read as

follows:

“(cX1) The Secre of the Treasury may purchase any obliga-
tions issued under Saini (a). For such p , the Secretary
may use as a public debt transaction the of the sale of any

securities issued under chapter 31 of title 31, United States Code,
and the purposes for which securities may be issued under such
chapter are extended to include such purpose.

“(2) The Secre of Treasury shall not at any time purchase any
obligations under this subsection if the purchase would increase the
aggregate principal amount of the outstanding holdings of obliga-
tions under this subsection by the Secretary to an amount greater
than $2,250,000,000.

“(3) Each purchase of obligations by the Secretary of the Treasury
under this subsection shall be upon terms and conditions established
to yield a rate of return determined by the Secretary to be appro-
priate, taking into consideration the current average rate on
outstanding marketable obligations of the United States as of the
last oy oF the month pepcpuing ‘he making of the purchase.

“(4) The Secretary of the asury may at any time sell, upon
terms and conditions and at prices determined by the Secretary, any
of the obligations acquired by the Secretary under this subsection.

“(5) All redemptions, purchases and sales by the Secretary of the
Treasury of obligations under this subsection shall be treated as
public debt transactions of the United States.”’.

(h) Prererrep Stocx.—Section 306(f) of the Federal Home Loan
Montene? Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1455(f)) is amended to read as

ollows:

“(f) The Corporation may have preferred stock on such terms and
conditions as the Board of Directors shall prescribe. Any preferred
stock shall not be entitled to vote with respect to the election of any
member of the Board of Directors.”’.

(i) Terms or OBLIGATIONS.—Section 306 of the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1455) is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsections:

“(j1) Any notes, debentures, or substantially identical types of
unsecured obligations of the Corporation evidencing money bor-
rowed, whether general or subordinated, shall be issued upon the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury and shall have such
maturities and bear such rate or rates of interest as may be deter-
mined by the Corporation with the approval of the Secretary of the
Treasury.

*(2) Any notes, debentures, of substantially identical types of
unsecured obligations of the Corporation having maturities of 1 year
or less that the Corporation has issued or is issuing as of the date of
the enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and
Enforcement Act of 1989 shall be deemed to have been approved b
the Secretary of the Treasury as required by this subsection. Suc
deemed approval shall expire 365 days after such date of enactment.

“(3) Any notes, debentures, or substantially identical of
unsecured obligations of the Corporation having maturities of more
than 1 year that the Corporation has issued or is issuing as of the
date of the enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recov-
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 435

ery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 shall be deemed to have been
approved by the Secretary of the Treasury as required by this

subsection. Such deemed approval shall expire 60 days after such
date of enactment.

“(k1) Any securities in the form of debt obligations or trust
certificates of beneficial interest, or both, and based upon mortgages
held and set aside by the Corporation, shall be issued upon the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury and shall have such
maturities and shall bear such rate or rates of interest as may be
determined by the Corporation with the approval of the Secretary of
the Treasury.

“(2) Any securities in the form of debt obligations or trust certifi-
cates of beneficial interest, or both, and based upon mortgages held
and set aside by the Corporation, that the Corporation has issued or
is issuing as of the date of the enactment of the Financial Institu-
tions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 shall be
deemed to have been approved by the Secretary of the Treasury as
required by this subsection.”’.

(j) Srate Limrrations.—

(1) The second sentence of section 307(a) of the Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1456(a)) is amended
to read as follows: “The Corporation is authorized to conduct its
business without regard to any qualification or similar statute
in any State.”.

(2) The amendment made by this subsection shall not apply to 12 USC 1456
any assertion of priority by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage ™°*
Corporation with respect to any cause of action or claim filed
before the date of the enactment of this Act.

(k) PENAL Provisions.—Section 308 of the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1457) is amended—

- in subsection (a), by striking the subsection designation;
an

(2) by striking subsections (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f).

(1) Construction.—Section 310 of the Federal Home Loan Mort-
gage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1459) is amended—

“ in the section heading, by striking “CONSTRUCTION AND”;
an

(2) by striking the first sentence.

(m) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE
ASSOCIATION CHARTER ACT.—

(1) STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.—Section 301 of the Federal Na-
tional Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1716) is
amended—

(A) by striking paragraphs (a) and (b) and inserting the
following new paragraphs:

aid provide stability in the secondary market for home mort-

‘O) respond appropriately to the private capital market;

“(3) provide ongoing assistance to the secondary market for
home mortgages (including mortgages securing housing for low-
and moderate-income families involving a reasonable economic
return) by increasing the liquidity of mortgage investments and
improving the distribution of investment capital available for
home mortgage financing; and”; and

(B) by redesignating paragraph (c) as paragraph (4).
103 STAT. 436 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

Reports,

(2) LENDING AcTiIvities.—Section 304(aX2) of the Federal Na-
tional Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1719a\(2)) is
amended—

(A) by inserting after the 3rd sentence the following new
sentence: “The corporation shall not be permitted to use its
lending authority (A) to advance funds to a mortgage seller
on an interim basis, using mortgage loans as collateral,
pending the sale of the mortgages in the secondary market;
or (B) to originate mortgage loans.”; and

(B) by striking the 1st and 2d sentences.

(3) Aupirs By GAo.—Section 309 of the Federal National
Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1723a) is amended
by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(j) The mortgage transactions of the corporation may be subject
to audit by the Comptroller General of the United States in accord-
ance with the principles and procedures applicable to commercial
corporation transactions under such rules and regulations as may be
prescribed by the Comptroller General. The representatives of the
General Accounting ce shall have access to such books, accounts,
financial records, reports, files, and such other papers, things, or

roperty belonging to or in use by the corporation and necessary to
acilitate the audit, and they s be afforded full facilities for
verifying transactions with the balances or securities held by deposi-
tories, fiscal agents, and custodians. A report on each such audit
shall be made by the Comptroller General to the re er The
corporation shall reimburse the General Accountin ice for the
pe = of any such audit as billed therefor by the Comptroller
neral.”.

Subtitle C—Technical and Conforming
Amendments

SEC, 741. REPEAL OF LIMITATION OF OBLIGATION FOR ADMINISTRATIVE
EXPENSES.

Section 7(b) of the First Deficiency Appropriation Act of 1936 (15
U.S.C. 712a(b)) is amended by striking the following:

“1. Federal Home Loan Bank Board;”;

“2. Home Owners’ Loan Corporation;’’; and -

“11. Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation;”.

SEC, 742. AMENDMENT OF TITLE 5, UNITED STATES CODE.

(a) Executive SCHEDULE.—
(1) Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code (5 U.S.C. 5315) is
amended—
(A) by striking
“Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board.”’; and
(B) by adding at the end thereof the following:
“Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision.
“Chairperson of the Federal Housing Finance Board.”.
(2) Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code (5 U.S.C. 5315) is
amended—
(A) by striking out
“Members, Federal Home Loan Bank Board.’’,, and
(B) by bases ting
“Directors, Federal Housing Finance Board.”’.
PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 437

(b) LimrraTION ON Pay Frxep By ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION.—Section
5873(2) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
“481,” the following: “1437, 1439,”.

(c) DermniTion or AGENcY.—Section 3132(a\(1) of title 5, United
States Code (5 U.S.C. 3132(a)1)), is amended—

(1) in subparagraph (B), by striking “or” after the semicolon;
(2) in subparagraph (C), by inserting “or” after the semicolon;

and
(3) by adding at the end the following:

“(D) the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the
Office of Thrift Supervision, the Federal Housing Finance
Board, the Resolution Trust Corporation, and the National
Credit Union Administration;”.

SEC. 743. AMENDMENT OF BALANCED BUDGET AND EMERGENCY DEFICIT
CONTROL ACT PROVISIONS.

(a) Section 255(gX1\A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 905(g)(1XA)) is amended—
(1) by inserting after the item relating to the Comptroller of
the Currency the following new item:
“Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision;”;
(2) by striking out “Federal Home Loan Bank Board;” and
inserting in lieu thereof the following new items:
“Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Bank Insurance

Fund;

“Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, FSLIC Resolu-
tion Fund;

“Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Savings Associa-
tion Insurance Fund;”

(3) by striking out “Federal Home Loan Bank Board, Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation” and inserting in lieu
thereof “Federal Housing Finance Board’’; and

(4) by inserting after the item relating to the Postal service
fund the following new items:

“Resolution Funding Corporation;
“Resolution Trust Corporation;”.
(b) Section 256(bX4) of the Ssiennat Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 256(b(4)) is amended— 2 USC 906.

(1) by striking out subparagraph (C) and inserting in lieu

thereof the follo owing nee eoereaer
“(C) Office of Supervision.”;

(2) by striking ps, secs he (D) and inserting in lieu thereof
the ee new subparagraph:

“(D) Office of Thrift Supervision.”’; and

verbo adding at the end thereof the following new ‘sabpare-
grap

“(H) Resolution Funding Corporation.
“(T) Resolution Trust Corporation.”’.
(c) Section 2) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 is amended by striking “Federal Savings and
Loan Insurance Corporation fund (82-4037-0-3-371);”.

SEC. 744. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO FINANCIAL INSTITUTION RE-
LATED ACTS.

(a) FeperaL FinanciaL InstirutTions EXAMINATION COUNCIL
Act. —
103 STAT. 438

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(1) Secrion 1003.—Section 1003 of the Federal Financial
—— Examination Council Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3302) is
amen

(A) in paragraph (1), by striking out “Federal Home Loan
Bank Board” and icapeting in lieu thereof “Office of Thrift
Supervision”; and

) in paragraph (3), by striking out “savings and loan
association” and inserting in lieu thereof “savings associa-
tion”.

(2) Section 1004.—Section 1004(a)(4) of the Federal Financial
Institutions Examination Council Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C.
3303(a)(4)) is amended by striking out “Chairman of the Federal
Home Loan Bank Board, and” and inserting in lieu thereof
“Director, Office of Thrift Supervision”’.

(3) SEcrion 1006.—Section 1006(d) of the Federal Financial
Institutions Examination Council Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3305(d))
is amended in the 2d sentence by inserting “and employees of
the Federal Housing Finance Board” after “supervisory agen-
cies’’.

(b) Ricur To Financia Privacy Act.—Section 1101 of the Right
to Financial Privacy Act yal 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3401) is amend

(1) in paragraph (1), by striking out ‘savings and loan” and
inserting in lieu thereof “savings association”;

(2) in paragraph (6), by striking out subparagraph (B) and
redesignating the remaining subparagraphs as subparagraphs

(B) through (H), respectively; and

(3) in aragraph (6B) (as so redes nated), by striking out
“the Federal Home Loan Bank Board” and inserting in lieu
thereof “Director, Office of Thrift Supervision”.

(c) ALTERNATIVE MortGAGE TRANSACTIONS Parity Act.—The
Alternative Mortgage Transactions Parity Act of 1982 (12 U.S.C.
3801-06) is amended by striking out Bd ysis Home Loan Bank
Board” each place such term ppeenrs and inserting in lieu thereof

“Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision”.

(d) Expeprrep Funps AVAILABILITY ACT. —Section 610(aX2) of the
Expedited Funds Availability Act (12 U.S.C. 4009(a)\(2)) is amended
to read as follows:

“(2) section 8 of the Federal a Sia Insurance Act, by the
Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision in the case of
savings associations the deposits of which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; and”.

(e) Paperwork Repuction Acr.—Section 2(aX10) of the ity
work Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3502(a\(10)) is amend
striking out “Federal Home Loan Bank Board” and inserting in liew
thereof “the Federal Housing Finance Board”.

(f) FEDERAL PROPERTY AND ApMINISTRATIVE SERVICES Act.—Sec-
tion 602(11) of the Federal Nok ok dr and Administrative Services Act
of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 474(11)) is amen

ya) by inse “or the Resolution Trust Corporation” after

ent of ousing and Urban Development”;

(2) by striking out “savings and loan accounts” and inserting
in lieu thereof “savings association accounts”; and

(3) b inserting “under the Federal De it Insurance Act or
any other law.” after ‘“‘National Housing Act”.

(g) Pusuic Burpines Act.—Section 13(4) of the Public Buildings
Act ae tag (40 U.S.C. 612(d)) is amended by striking out subpara-
grap :
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 439

(h) Bank Protection Act.—Section 2 of the Bank Protection Act
of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1881) is amended—

(1) in paragraph (4), by—

(A) striking out “Federal Home Loan Bank Board” and
inserting in lieu thereof “Director of the Office of Thrift
Supervision”;

(B) striking out “and loan”; and

(C) striking “associations” and all that follows through
“Corporation”; and

(2) in paragraph (3), by inserting “and State savings associa-
tions” before “, an

(i) THE FEDERAL Reserve Act.—

(1) Section 11.—Section 11(a)(2) of the Federal Reserve Act (12
U.S.C. 248(aX2)) is amended by striking “(iii) Federal Home
Loan Bank Board in the case of any institution insured by the
Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation” and insert-
ing “(iii) the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision in the

case of any savings association which is an insured depository
institution (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act)”.

(2) Section 19(b).—Section 19(b\1)A)vi) of the Federal Re-
ae Act (12 US.C. 461(b\1 Avi) is amended to read as
ollows:

“(vi) any coat tepeet association (as defined in section 3
of the Federal it Insurance Act) which is an
insured be agro festitution (as defined in such Act)
or is eligible to apply to become an insured depository
pra under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act;
and”.

(3) Secrion 19.—Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act (12
U.S.C. 461) is amended by striking out “the Federal Home Loan
Bank Board,” and inserting in lieu thereof “the Director of the
Office of Thrift Su pervision,” each place it appears.

(j) Pustic Law 93-495, —Section 3 of title I of Public Law 93-495
(12 U.S.C. 250) is amended by striking “Federal Home Loan Bank
Board” and inserting “Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision”

(k) TruTH iv _LeNnpinG Act.—Section 108(a\(2) of the > ‘Truth in
Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1607(a)(2)) is amended to read as follows:

“(2) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, by the
Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, in the case of a
savings association the deposits of which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.”’.

(1) Farr Creprr Reportinc Act. —Section 621(bX(2) of the Fair
a : it Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681s(b\(2)) is amended to read as
ollows:

(2) a 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, by the
Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, in the case of a
savings association the deposits of which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Goteestion

(m) EQuaL 1r OpporTuNiITY A hoe Becton 704(aX2) of the
Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691c(aX2)) is amended to
read as follows:

“(2) Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, by the
Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, in the case of a

savings association the deposits of which are insured by the

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.”’.
103 STAT. 440 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(n) Fark Desr CoLtitection Practices Act.—Section 814(b\(2) of the
Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (15 U.S.C. 1692/(b\(2)) is amended
to read as follows:

“(2) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, by the
Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, in the case of a

savings association the deposits of which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;”.

(0) Execrronic Funp TRANSFER Act.—Section 917(aX(2) of the
Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 16930(a)(2)) is amended to
read as follows:

“(2) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, by the
Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, in the case of a
savings association the deposits of which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;”.

(p) Home Mortcace DiscLosure Act OF 1975.—

(1) Section 305.—Section 305(b)\(2) of the Home Mortgage
Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2804(bX2)) is amended to read
as follows:

“(2) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, by the
Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, in the case of a
savings association the deposits of which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; and”’.

(2) Section 306.—Section 306(bX2) of the Home Mortgage
Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2805(bX2)) is amended to read
as follows:

“(2) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, by the
Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision in the case of a
savings association the deposits of which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.”.

(3) Secrion 307.—Section 307 of the Home Mortgage Dis-
closure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2806) is amended by striking
“Federal Home Loan Bank Board” each place it appears and
inserting “‘Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision”.

(q) Community REINVESTMENT Act oF 1977.—Section 803(1\D) of
the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (12 U.S.C. 2902(1)\D)) is
amended to read as follows:

“(2) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, by the
Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, in the case of a
savings association (the deposits of which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation) and a savings and loan
holding company;”.

(r) Deposrrory INsTITUTIONS MANAGEMENT INTERLOCKS AcT.—

(1) Section 207(4) of the Depository Institutions Management
Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3206(4)) is amended to read as follows:

“(4) the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision with
respect to a savings association (the deposits of which are
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation) and
savings and loan holding companies,”.

(s) Deposrrory InstrruTIONS DEREGULATION Act or 1980.—Section
208(aX2) of the Depository Institutions Deregulation Act of 1980 (12
U.S.C. 3507(aX2)) is amended to read as follows:

“(2) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, by the
Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, in the case of a
savings association the deposits of which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.”’.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 441

(t) FeperaL Trape Commission Act.—Section 18(f(3) of the Fed-
eral Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 57a(f(3)) is amended to read
as follows:

“(3) Compliance with regulations prescribed under this
subsection shall be enforced under section 8 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act with respect to savings associations as
defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.”.

(u) Securrries ExcHANGE Act oF 1934.—

(1) Secrion 3.—Section 3(a)(34) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a\(34)) is amended—

(A) in subparagraph (G)—

(i) by striking clauses (iv) and (v) and inserting the
following:

“(iv) the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision,
in the case of a savi association the deposits of
which are insured by Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation;”’; and

(ii) by redesignating clause (vi) as clause (v); and

(B) in the second sentence, by striking “‘the Federal Home
Loan Bank Board” and inserting “the Office of Thrift
Supervision”.

(2) Section 12.—Section 12(i) of the Securities Exchange Act

of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 781(i)) is amended—
(A) in the first sentence—

(i) by inserting “and savings associations” after
“banks” the first place it appears;

(ii) by ey ony, S| institutions the accounts of which
are insured by Federal Savings and Loan Insurance
Corporation”; and

(ili) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting “(4) with
respect to savings associations the accounts of which
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion are vested in the Office of Thrift Supervision”; and

(B) in the second sentence, by see ig Federal Home
Loan Bank Board” and inserting “ e Office of Thrift
Supervision”.

(3) SECTION 15. —Section 15C(f(1) (15 U.S.C. 780-5(f)(1)) of such
Act is amended by striking “Federal Home Loan Bank Board”
and inserting “Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision”.

TITLE VIII—BANK CONSERVATION ACT
AMENDMENTS

SEC, 801, DEFINITIONS.

— 202 of the Bank Conservation Act (12 U.S.C. 202) is
amended—

(1) by, inserting after “national banking association” the fol-
lowing: “or an a other financial institution chartered or licensed
under Fede law and subject to the supervision of the
Comptroller of the Currency”; and

(2) by inserting before ‘ ‘and the term ‘State’ ” the following:
“the term ‘voluntary dissolution and liquidation’ means a trans-
action pursuant to section 5220 of the Revised Statutes that
involves the assumption of the bank’s insured deposit liabilities
103 STAT. 442

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

and the sale of the bank, or of control of the bank, as a going
concern;”’.

SEC, 802. APPOINTMENT OF CONSERVATOR.

Section 203 of the Bank Conservation Act (12 U.S.C. 203) is

amended to read as follows:
“SEC. 203. APPOINTMENT OF CONSERVATOR.

“(a) APPOINTMENT.—The Comptroller of the Currency may, with-

out notice or prior hearing, appoint a conservator, which may be the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, to take possession and con-
trol of a bank whenever the Comptroller determines that one or
more of the following circumstances exist:

“(1) any one or more of the conditions for appointment of a
receiver for the bank specified in the first section of the Act of
June 30, 1876 (12 U.S.C. 191) are present;

“(2) the bank is not likely to be able to meet the demands of
its depositors or pay its obligations in the normal course of
business;

“(3) the bank is in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact
business, including having substantially insufficient capital or
otherwise;

“(4)(A) the bank has incurred or is likely to incur losses that
will deplete all or substantially all of its capital, and

“(B) there is no reasonable prospect for the bank’s capital to
be replenished without Federal assistance;

“(5) there is a violation or violations of laws, rules, or regula-
tions, or any unsafe or unsound practice or condition which is
likely to cause insolvency or substantial dissipation of assets or
earnings, or is likely to weaken the bank’s condition or other-
wise seriously prejudice the interests of its depositors;

“(6) there is concealment of books, papers, records, or assets of
the bank, or refusal to submit books, papers, records, or affairs
of the bank for inspection to any examiner or to any lawful
agent of the Comptroller;

“(7) there is a willful or continuing violation of an order
enforceable against the bank under section &i) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act; or

“(8) the bank’s board of directors consists of fewer than 5
members.

“(b) Jupic1aL REVIEw.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 20 days after the initial
appointment of a conservator pursuant to this section, the bank
may bring an action in the United States district court for the
judicial district in which the home office of such bank is located,
or in the United States District Court for the District of Colum-
bia, for an order requiring the Comptroller to terminate the
appointment of the conservator, and the court, upon the merits,
shall dismiss such action or shall direct the Comptroller to
terminate the appointment of such conservator. The Comptrol-
ler’s decision to appoint a conservator pursuant to this section
shall be set aside only if the court finds that such decision was
arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in
accordance with law.

“(2) Sray.—The conservator may request that any judicial
action or proceeding to which the conservator or the bank is or
may become a party be stayed for a period of up to 45 days after
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 108 STAT. 443°

the appointment of the conservator. Upon petition, the court
shall grant such stay as to all parties.

“(3) ACTIONS AND ORDERS.—Except as otherwise provided in
this subsection, no court may take any action regarding the
removal of a conservator, or restrain, or affect the exercise of
powers or functions of a conservator. A court, upon application
by the Comptroller, shall have jurisdiction to enforce an order
of the Comptroller relating to—

“(A) the conservatorship and the bank in
conservatorship, or

“(B) restraining or affecting the exercise of powers or
functions of a conservator.

“(c) ADDITIONAL GROUNDS FOR APPOINTMENT.—In addition to the
foregoing provisions, the Comptroller may appoint a conservator for

“(1) the bank, by an affirmative vote of a majority of its board
of directors or by an affirmative vote of a majority of its
shareholders, consents to such appointment, or

“(2) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation terminates
the bank’s status as an insured bank.

The appointment of a conservator pursuant to this subsection shall
not be subject to review.

“(d) ExcLustvE AUTHORITY.—The Comptroller shall have exclusive
power and jurisdiction to appoint a conservator for a bank. When-
ever the Comptroller appoints a conservator for any bank, the
Comptroller may appoint the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion conservator for such bank. The Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, as such conservator, shall have all the powers granted
under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and (when not inconsist-
ent therewith) any other rights, powers, and privileges possessed by
conservators of banks under this Act and any other provision of law.
The Comptroller may also appoint another person as conservator,
who shall be subject to the provisions of this Act.

“(e) REPLACEMENT OF CONSERVATOR.—The Comptroller may,
without notice or hearing, replace a conservator with another con-
servator. Such replacement shall not affect the bank’s right under
subsection (b) to obtain judicial review of the Comptroller's original
decision to appoint a conservator.”.

SEC. 803, EXAMINATIONS,

Section 204 of the Bank Conservation Act (12 U.S.C. 204) is
amended to read as follows:

“SEC. 204. EXAMINATIONS.

“The Comptroller of the Currency (in consultation with the Board
of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation when the
Corporation is appointed conservator) is authorized to examine and
supervise the bank in conservatorship as long as the bank continues
to operate as a going concern. The Comptroller may use reports and
other information provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration for this purpose.”’.

SEC. 804. TERMINATION OF CONSERVATORSHIP.

Section 205 of the Bank Conservation Act (12 U.S.C. 205) is
amended to read as follows:
103 STAT. 444 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

Courts, U.S.

Courts, U.S.

“SEC. 205. TERMINATION OF CONSERVATORSHIP.

“(a) GENERAL Rute.—At any time the Comptroller becomes satis-
fied that it may safely be done and that it would be in the public
interest, the Comptroller (with the agreement of the Board of
Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation when the
Corporation has been appointed conservator) may—

“(1) terminate the conservatorship and permit the involved
bank to resume the transaction of its business subject to such
terms, conditions, and limitations as the Comptroller may pre-
scribe; or

“(2) terminate the conservatorship upon a sale, merger,
consolidation, purchase and assumption, change in control, or
voluntary dissolution and liquidation of the involved bank.

“(b) OrnerR GROUNDS FOR TERMINATION.—The Comptroller also
may terminate the conservatorship upon the appointment of a
Sscua to the first section of the Act of June 30, 1876 (12

“(c) ENFORCEMENT UNDER FEDERAL Deposir INSURANCE AcT.—
Such terms, conditions, and limitations as may be prescribed under
subsection (a1) shall be enforceable under the provisions of section
8(i) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, to the same extent as an
order issued pursuant to section 8(b) of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act which has become final. The bank may bring an action in
the United States district court for the judicial district in which the
home office of such bank is located or in the United States District
Court for the District of Columbia for an order requiring the
Comptroller to terminate the order. An action for judicial review of
the terms, conditions, and limitations may not be commenced later
than 20 days from the date of the termination of the conservatorship
or the imposition of the order, whichever is later.

“(d) Action Upon TERMINATION.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Upon termination of the conservatorship
under subsection (a2), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion, as conservator, or when another person is appointed con-
servator, such other person, shall conclude the affairs of the
conservatorship in accordance with paragraph (2).

(2) DEPOSIT AND DISTRIBUTION OF PROCEEDS.—(A) Within 180 days
of the sale, merger, consolidation, purchase and assumption, change
in control, or voluntary dissolution and liquidation, the conservator
shall deposit all net proceeds received from the transaction, less any
outstanding expenses of the conservatorship, with the United States
district court for the judicial district in which the home office of
such bank is located and shall cause notice to be published for three
consecutive months and notify by mail all known and remaining
creditors and shareholders. Within 60 days thereafter, any deposi-
tor, creditor, or other claimant of the bank, or any shareholder of
the bank may bring an action in interpleader in that court for
distribution of the proceeds. The district court shall distribute such
funds equitably. If no such action is instituted within one year after
the date the funds are deposited with the district court, title to such
net proceeds shall revert to the United States and the district court
shall remit the funds to the Treasury of the United States.

“(B) The conservator shall be deemed to have discharged all
responsibility of the conservatorship upon the deposit of the pro-
ceeds with the district court and giving the required notifications.”’.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 445

SEC. 805. CONSERVATOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.

Section 206 of the Bank Conservation Act (12 U.S.C. 206) is
amended to read as follows:

“SEC. 206. CONSERVATOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.

“(a) GENERAL Powers.—A conservator shall have all the powers of
the shareholders, directors, and officers of the bank and may oper-
ate the bank in its own name unless the Comptroller in the order of
appointment limits the conservator’s authority.

‘(b) Sussect TO RuLEs or CoMpTROLLER.—The conservator shall be
subject to such rules, regulations, and orders as the Comptroller
from time to time deems se egapa and, except as otherwise
ae provided in such , regulations, or orders or in
section 209 of this Act, shall have the same rights and privileges and
be subject to the same duties, restrictions, penalties, conditions, and
limitations as apply to directors, officers, or employees of a national

“(c) PAYMENT OF Deposrrors AND CreEprTors.—The Comptroller
may require the conservator to set aside and make available for
withdrawal by depositors and payment to other creditors such
amounts as in the opinion of the Comptroller may safely be used for
that purpose. All depositors and creditors who are similarly situated
shall be treated in the same manner.

“(d) COMPENSATION OF CONSERVATOR AND EMPLOYEES.—The con-
servator and professional employees appointed to represent or assist
the conservator shall not be paid amounts greater han are payable
to employees of the Federal Government for similar services, except
that the Comptroller of the Currency may authorize payment at
higher rates dut not in excess of rates prevailing in the private
sector), if the Comptroller determines that paying such higher rates
is necessary in order to recruit and retain competent personnel.

“(e) ExPENSES.—AIl expenses of any such conservatorship shall be
paid by the bank and shall be a lien upon the bank which shall be
prior to any other lien.”’.

SEC. 806, LIABILITY PROTECTION.

Section 209 of the Bank Conservation Act (12 U.S.C. 209) is
amended to read as follows:

“SEC. 209. LIABILITY PROTECTION.

“(a) FepERAL AGENCY AND EmMpLoyees.—In any case in which the
conservator is a Federal agency or an employee of the Government,
the provisions of chapters 161 and 171 of title 28, United States
Code, shall apply with respect to such conservator’s liability for acts
or omissions performed pursuant to and in the course of the duties
and responsibilities of the conservatorship.

“(b) OrneR ConseRVATORS.—In any case where the conservator is
not a conservator described in subsection (a), the conservator shall
not be liable for damages in tort or otherwise for acts or omissions
performed pursuant to and in the course of the duties and respon-
sibilities of the conservatorship, unless such acts or omissions con-
stitute gross negligence, including any similar conduct or any form
of intentional tortious conduct, as determined by a court.

“(c) INDEMNIFICATION.—The Comptroller shall have authority to
indemnify the conservator on such terms as the Comptroller deems
proper.”.
103 STAT. 446 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

SEC. 807. RULES AND REGULATIONS.

Section 211 of the Bank Conservation Act (12 U.S.C. 211) is
amended to read as follows:

“SEC, 211. RULES AND REGULATIONS.

“(a) In GENERAL.—The Comptroller of the Currency may prescribe
such rules and regulations as the Comptroller may deem necessary
to carry out the provisions of this Act.

“(b) F.D.L.C. as ConservaTor.—In any case in which the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation is the conservator, any rules or
regulations prescribed by the Comptroller shall be consistent with
any rules and regulations prescribed by the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.”’.

SEC. 808. REPEALS.

Sections 207 and 208 of the Bank Conservation Act (12 U.S.C. 207
and 208) are repealed.

TITLE IX—REGULATORY ENFORCEMENT
AUTHORITY AND CRIMINAL ENHANCE-
MENTS

Subtitle A—Expanded Enforcement Powers,
Increased Penalties, and Improved Account-
ability

SEC. 901. INSTITUTION-AFFILIATED PARTIES OF A DEPOSITORY INSTITU-
TION SUBJECT TO ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ORDERS;
SUBSTITUTION OF “DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION” FOR “BANK”
IN ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.

(a) INSTITUTION-AFFILIATED PARTY Derinep.—Section 206 of the
Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786) is amended by adding at
the end thereof the following new subsection:

“(r) INSTITUTION-AFFILIATED Party DeFINED.—For purposes of this
Act, the term ‘institution-affiliated party’ means—

“(1) any committee member, director, officer, or employee of,
or agent for, an insured credit union;

“(2) any consultant, joint venture partner, and any other
person as determined by the Board (by regulation or on a case-
by-case basis) who participates in the conduct of the affairs of an
insured credit union; and

“(3) any independent contractor (including any attorney, ap-
praiser, or accountant) who knowingly or recklessly participates
in-—

“(A) any violation of any law or regulation;
“(B) any breach of fiduciary duty; or
“(C) any unsafe or coerce f practice,
which caused or is likely to cause more than a minimal finan-
cial loss to, or a significant adverse effect on, the insured credit
union.”.
» (b) AMENDMENTS RELATING TO USE oF “INSTITUTION-AFFILIATED
ARTY’ .—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 447

(1) FDIA.—Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
U.S.C. 1818) is amended—
(A) in subsection (b\1)—

(i) by striking out “director, officer, employee, agent,
or other person icipating in the conduct of the
affairs of such a ” and inserting in lieu thereof
“institution-affiliated party”; and

(ii) by striking out “directors, officers, employees,
agents, or other persons participating i in the conduct of
the affairs of such bank” and inserting in lieu thereof
“institution-affiliated parties”;

(B) in each of subsections (b\1) and (c)—

(i) by striking out “director, officer, ey aa be ie
or other person participating in the conduct
affairs of such bank” each Place such term appears and
inserting in lieu thereof “institution-affiliated party”;

(ii) by striking out swiek director, officer, employee,
quent, or other lage ” each place such term appears
and inserting in lieu thereof “such party”;

(C) in subsection (eX4), as so redesignated by section
903(aX(2) of this Act—

(i) by striking out “a director, officer, or other person
from office or to prohibit his participation” and insert-
ing in lieu thereof “an peed rabapy son party from
office or to prohibit such party from participating”;

(ii) by striking out “such director or officer or other
person” and inserting in lieu thereof “such party”;

(iii) by striking out “such director, officer, or other
person” and inse in lieu thereof “such party’;

(iv) by striking out “he” and inserting in lieu thereof

“such party”;

(v) by striking out “any director, officer or other
nee and inserting in lieu thereof “any such party”;
an

(vi) by striking out “the director, officer, or other
person concern ” and inserting in lieu thereof “such

(D) in subsection (e5), as so redesignated by section
903(aX(2) of this Act—

(i) by inserting after “the term ‘officer’ ” the follow-
pe “within the term ‘institution-affiliated party’ ”;
an

(ii) by inserting after “the term ‘director’ ” the fol-
lowing: “within the term ‘institution-affiliated party’ as
used in this subsection”;

(E) i a = (h—
by striking out “any director, officer, or other
PP and a in lieu thereof “any institution-
affiliated party”; an

(ii) by aes o a “such director, officer, or other

rson” each place such term appears and inserting in

ieu thereof “such ts
(F) in subsection (g\(1

(i) by striking out “director or officer of an insured

bank, or other person participating in the conduct of
103 STAT. 448

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

the affairs of such bank” and inserting in lieu thereof
“institution-affiliated y”;

(ii) by striking out “the individual” each place such
term appears and inserting in lieu thereof “such

(iii) by striking out “such director, officer, or other

rson” each place such term appears and inserting in
ieu thereof “such party”;

(iv) by striking out “him” each place such term
appears and inserting in lieu thereof “such party”;

(v) by striking out “director, officer or other person’
and inserting in lieu thereof “party”; and

(vi) by striking out “whereupon such director or offi-
cer” and inserting in lieu thereof “whereupon such
party (if a director or an officer)’’;

(G) in subsection (g\3)—

(i) by striking out “the director, officer, or other

rson concerned” and inserting in lieu thereof “the
institution-affiliated party concerned”;

(ii) by striking out “such individual” each place such
term appears and inserting in lieu thereof “such

party ;
(ii) by striking out “the concerned director, officer,
or other person” and inserting in lieu thereof “such

y;

(iv) by striking out “the director, officer, or other
person” each place such term appears (except in “the
director, officer, or other person concerned”) and
inserting in lieu thereof “such party”;

(v) by striking out “said director, officer or other
person” and inserting in lieu thereof “such party’; and

(vi) by striking out “the director, officer or other

rson” and inserting in lieu thereof “such party”;

in subsection (h\X2), by striking out “director or officer
or other person” and inserting in lieu thereof “‘institution-
affiliated party”’;

(D in subsection (1), by striking out “director or officer
thereof or other person participating in the conduct of its
affairs” and inserting in lieu thereof “institution-affiliated
party”; and

(J) in subsection (m), by striking out “director or officer or
other person participating in the conduct of its affairs’ and
inserting in lieu thereof “institution-affiliated iy”

(2) FCUA.—Section 206 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12
U.S.C. 1786) is amended—

(A) in subsection (e1)—

(i) by striking out “director, officer, committee
member, employee, agent, or other person participating
in the conduct of the affairs of such a credit union” and
em in lieu thereof “institution-affiliated party”;

an
(ii) by striking out “directors, officers, committee
members, employees, agents, or other persons partici-
pating in the conduct of the affairs of such credit
union” and inserting in lieu thereof “institution-affili-
ated parties”;
(B) in each of subsections (e)(1) and ()}—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 449

oo om out —— r, officer, committee
me r, employee, agent, or other person participa
in the conduct of the affairs of such credit union ee
place such term appears and inserting in lieu thereof
‘institution-affiliated > and
(ii) by striking out “such director, officer, ——-
member, employee, agent, or other person” h place
such form appears and inserting in lieu thereof ‘ such

(C) in eciancthis (f{1), by striking out “such director,
officer, committee member, employee, agents, or other
person” and inserting in lieu thereof “such party”;

(D) in subsection (i 1)—

(i) by striking out “director, committee member, or

pee of an insured credit union, or other person

participating i in the conduct of the affairs of such credit

union” and inserting in lieu thereof “institution-affili-
ated party”;

(ii) by striking = “the individual” each place such

term appears and inserting in lieu thereof “such

(iii) ‘by striking out “such director, committee
member, ee or other person” each place such term
ap and inserting in lieu thefeof “such

iv) by — out “him” and inserting in leu
thereof “su

(v) by striking out ‘(Siawitia, officer or other person”
and inserting in lieu thereof “party”; and

(vi) by striking out whereupon such director,
committee member, or officer” and inserting in lieu
thereof ‘ ‘whereupon. such (if a director, a commit-
tee member, or an officer)’;

(E) in subsection (iX3)—

(i) by striking out “director, committee member, offi-
cer, or other person concerned” and st A in Ya
thereof “institution-affiliated vide ogee j

(ii) by striking out “such in tase aah
term appears and inserting in lieu yp og “such

(iii) by out “the concerned director, commit-
tee ab 7 ete or other person” and inserting in
lieu Goenest is

(iv) by ditkns out “the director, committee member,
officer, or other ” each place such term appears
(except in “the feeetettian member, officer, or
other person concerned”) and inserting in lieu thereof

“such party”; an

(v) by stitking. - “said director, committee member,
officer or other person” and inserting in lieu thereof

<—*
(F) in su on OM. Py by a, out “director, officer,
committee member, r person and inserting in lieu

thereof ‘ Sf stitution atfilinted party”; and

(G) in subsection (0), striking out Poel officer,
committee member or person in the
conduct of its affairs” and inserting in lieu thereof “institu-
tion-affiliated party’’.
103 STAT. 450 PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989

(d) SusstiruTion oF “Deposirory INsTITUTION” FoR “BANK”.—
Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818), as
amended by subsection (b\(1) of this section, is amended by striking
out “bank” and “banks” each place such terms appear and inserting
in lieu thereof ‘depository institution” and “depository institu-
ea respectively, except in subsections (b)(3), (b\4), (m), (0), and
r).

SEC. 902. AMENDMENTS TO CEASE AND DESIST AUTHORITY WITH RE-
SPECT TO RESTITUTION, RESTRICTIONS ON SPECIFIC ACTIVI-
TIES, GROUNDS FOR ISSUANCE OF A TEMPORARY ORDER, AND
INCOMPLETE OR INACCURATE RECORDS.

(a) Deposrrory InstiTUTIONS INSURED BY THE FDIC.—
(1) CEASE AND DESIST AUTHORITY.—Section 8(b) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(b)) is amended—

(A) in ph (3), by striking out “subsections (c)
through (f) and (h) through (n)” and inserting in lieu thereof
“subsections (c) through (s) and subsection (u)’’;

(B) in axegreye (4), by striking out “subsections (c)
through é and (h) through (n)” and inserting in lieu thereof
“subsections (c) through (s) and subsection (u)’”’; and

(C) by adding at the end thereof the following new para-

aphs:

«6 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION TO CORRECT CONDITIONS RESULTING
FROM VIOLATIONS OR PRACTICES.—The authority to issue an order
under this subsection and subsection (c) which requires an
insured depository institution or any institution-affiliated party
to take affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting
from any violation or practice with respect to which such order
is issued includes the authority to require such depository
institution or such party to—

“(A) make restitution or provide reimbursement, indem-
nification, or guarantee against loss if—

“Gi) such depository institution or such party was
unjustly enriched in connection with such violation or
practice; or

“(ii) the violation or practice involved a reckless
disregard for the law or any oa regulations or

rior order of the appropriate Federal banking agency;
“(B) restrict the growth of the institution;
“(C) dispose of any loan or asset involved;
“(D) rescind agreements or contracts; and
“(E) employ qualified officers or employees (who may be
subject to approval by the appropriate Federal banking
agency at the direction of such agency); and
“(F) take such other action as the banking agency deter-
mines to be appropriate.

“(7) AUTHORITY TO LIMIT ACTIVITIES.—The authority to issue
an order under this subsection or subsection (c) includes the
authority to place limitations on the activities or functions of an
insured depository institution or any institution-affiliated party.

“(8) EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY TO SAVINGS AND LOAN AFFILI-
ATES AND ENTITIES.—Subsections (a) through (s) and subsection
(u) shall apply to any savings and loan holding ar and to
any subsidiary (other than a bank or subsidiary of that bank) of
a savings and loan holding company, to any service corporation
of a savings association and to any subsidi of such service
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 451

corporation, whether wholly or partly owned, in the same
manner as such subsections apply to a savings association.”
(2) TEMPORARY CEASE AND DESIST AUTHORITY.—Section 8(c) of
~ Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(c)) is amend-
(A) in paregrepixt (1)—
(i) by striking out “substantial” and inserting in lieu
thereof “significant”;
(ii) by striking out “seriously” each place such term
appears; and
(iii) by inse after the lst sentence the following
new sentence: “Such order may include any require-
ment ull under subsection (b)\(6)(B).”; and
Br by adding at the end thereof the following new para-

ph:

“gh Eecosiecions OR INACCURATE RECORDS.—

“(A) TEMPORARY ORDER.—If a notice of charges served
under subsection (bX1) specifies, on the basis of particular
facts and circumstances, that an insured depository institu-
tion’s books and records are so incomplete or inaccurate
that the appropriate Federal banking agency is unable,

ugh the normal supervisory process, to determine the
financial condition of that depository institution or the
details or purpose of any transaction or transactions that
may have a material effect on the financial condition of
that depository institution, the agency may issue a tem-
porary order requiring—

“(i) the cessation of any activity or practice which
gave rise, whether in whole or in part, to the incom-
plete or. inaccurate state of the books or records; or

“Gi) affirmative action to restore such books or
records to a complete and accurate state, until the
ge sana the proceedings under subsection (bX1).

“(B) PERIOD.—Any temporary order issued
under os (A)—

“() become effective upon service; and

oe unless set aside, limited, or suspended by a court

under paragraph (2), shall remain in
effect and enforceable until the earlier of—

“(I) the completion of the proceeding initiated
under subsection (b)(1) in connection with the
notice of charges; or

“(ID the date the appropriate Federal banking
agency determines, by examination or otherwise,
that the insured depository institution’s books and
records are accurate and reflect the financial
condition of the depository institution.”.

(b) Creprrt Unions INsuRED By THE NCU.

(1) CEASE AND DESIST AUTHORITY. —Section 206(e) of the Fed-
eral Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(e)) is amended by adding
at the end thereof the following new paragraphs:

“(3) AFFIRMATIVE ACTION TO CORRECT CONDITIONS RESULTING
FROM VIOLATIONS OR PRACTICES.—The authority to issue an order
under this subsection and subsection (f) which requires an
insured credit union or any institution-affiliated party to take
affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any
violation or practice with respect to which such order is issued
103 STAT. 452 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

includes the authority to require such insured credit union or
such party to—

“(A) make restitution or provide reimbursement, indem-
nification, or guarantee against loss if—

“(j) such credit union or such party was unjustly
enriched in connection with such violation or practice;
or

“(ii) the violation or practice involved a reckless
disregard for the law or any applicable regulations or
prior order of the Board;

“(B) restrict the growth of the institution;

“(C) rescind agreements or contracts;

“(D) dispose of any loan or asset involved; and

“(E) employ qualified officers or employees (who may be
subject to approval by the Board at the direction of such
Board); and

“(F) take such other action as the Board determines to be
appropriate.

“(4) AUTHORITY TO LIMIT ACTIVITIES.—The authority to issue
an order under this subsection or subsection (f) includes the
authority to place limitations on the activities or functions of an
insured credit union or any institution-affiliated party.’

. (2) TEMPORARY CEASE AND DESIST AUTHORITY.—Section 206(f) of
the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(f) is amended—
(A) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (4);

(B) in paragraph (1)—

(i) by striking out “substantial” and inserting in lieu
thereof “significant”;

(ii) by striking out “seriously” each place such term
appears; and

(iii) by inserting after the 1st sentence the following
new sentence: “Such order may include any require-
ment authorized under subsection (e)(3XB).”; and

(C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new
paragraph:

“(3) INCOMPLETE OR INACCURATE RECORDS.—

“(A) TEMPORARY ORDER.—If a notice of charges served
under subsection (eX(1) specifies, on the basis of particular
facts and circumstances, that an insured credit union’s
books and records are so incomplete or inaccurate that the
Board is unable, through the normal supervisory process, to
determine the financial condition of that insured credit
union or the details or purpose of any transaction or trans-
actions that may have a material effect on the financial
condition of that insured credit union, the Board may issue
a temporary order requiring—

“(i) the cessation of any activity or practice which
gave rise, whether in whole or in part, to the incom-
plete or inaccurate state of the books or records; or

“(ii) affirmative action to restore such books or
records to a complete and accurate state, until the
completion of the proceedings under subsection (e\1).

“(B) EFFECTIVE PERIOD.—Any temporary order issued
under subparagraph (A)—

(i) shall become effective upon service; and
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 453

Bn beor unless set aside, limited, or suspended by a court
in pr oe under paragraph (2), shall remain in
effect and enforceable until the earlier of—

“(I) the completion of the proceeding initiated
under subsection (e1) in connection with the
notice of charges; or

“(ID the date the Board determines, by examina-
tion or otherwise, that the insured credit union’s
books and records are accurate and reflect the
financial condition of the credit union.”’.

SEC. 903. MERGER OF REMOVAL AND PROHIBITION AUTHORITY.

(a) Derosrrory INstITuTIONS INSURED BY THE FDIC.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 8(e)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(e\1)) is amended to read as follows:
“(e) REMOVAL AND PROHIBITION AUTHORITY.—
“(1) AUTHORITY TO ISSUE ORDER.—Whenever the appropriate
Federal banking agency determines that—
“A any institution-affiliated party has, directly or in-

“i) violated—
“@ any law or regulation;
any cease-and-desist order which has
aerial eg di posed by th
any con tion im in writing y the
appro ge Federal banking agency in connection
with the grant of any application or other request
by such depository institution; or
“IV) any written ment between such
Pe gsc institution —o uch agency;

“(ii) eng: or partici in any unsafe or un-
sound practice | in Bsmt with any insured deposi-
a institution or business institution; or

iii) committed or engaged in woe f act, omission, or
viene which constitutes a breach of such party’s
duciary duty;

“(B) -by reason of the violation, practice, or breach de-
scribed in any clause of subparagraph (A)—

“(i) such insured depository institution or business
institution has pry or will probably suffer finan-
cial loss or other dam

“Gi) the interests o the insured depository institu-
tion’s depositors have been or could be prejudiced; or

“(ii) such party has received financial gain or other
benefit by reason of such violation, practice, or breach;

and
“(C) such violation, practice, or breach—
“(i) involves personal dishonesty on the part of such

party; or
“(ii) demonstrates willful or continuing disregard by
such party for the safety or soundness of such insured
depository institution or business institution,
the agency may serve upon such party a written notice of the
ncy’s intention to remove such party from office or to pro-
hibit any further icipation by such , in any manner, in
the conduct of the affairs of any ins ‘depository institu-
tion.”
103 STAT. 454

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(2) TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OR PROHIBITION.—Section 8(e) of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(e)) is amend-
ed by striking out paragraphs (2) and (4), by redesignating
Beem RG (8), (5), and (6) as paragraphs (2), (4), and (5), respec-
are and by inserting after paragraph (2) (as so redesignated)
the following new paragraph:

“(3) SUSPENSION ORDER.—

“(A) SUSPENSION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.—If the
appropriate Federal banking agency serves written notice
under paragraph (1) or (2) to any institution-affiliated party
of such agency’s intention to issue an order under such
paragraph, the appropriate Federal banking agency pay
suspend such party from office or prohibit such party fro
further participation in any manner in the conduct of the
affairs of the depository institution, if the agency—

“(i) determines that such action is necessary for the
protection of the depository institution or the interests
of the depository institution’s depositors; and

“Gii) serves such party with written notice of the
suspension order.

“(B) ErrectivE pEriop.—Any suspension order issued
under subparagraph (A)—

“(i) shall become effective upon service; and

“(ii) unless a court issues a stay of such order under
nr tage (f), shall remain in effect and enforceable
until—

“(l) the date the appropriate Federal banking
agency dismisses the charges contained in the
notice served under paragraph (1) or (2) with re-
spect to such party; or

“(ID the effective date of an order issued by the
agency to such party under aph (1) or (2).

“(C) Copy OF ORDER.—If an appropriate Federal banking
agency issues a suspension order under subparagraph (A) i
any institution-affiliated party, the agency shall serve a
copy of such order on any insured depository institution
with which such party is associated at the time such order
is issued.”.

(3) PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN SPECIFIC ACTIVITIES.—Section 8(e)
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818&e)) is
amended by adding after paragraph (5) (as so redesignated by
paragraph (2) of this subsection) the following new paragraph:

(6) PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN SPECIFIC ACTIVITIES.—Any person
subject to an order issued under this subsection shall not—

“(A) participate in any manner in the conduct of the
AL of any institution or agency specified in paragraph

“(B) solicit, procure, transfer, attempt to transfer, vote, or
attempt to vote any proxy, consent, or authorization with
respect to any voting rights in any institution described in
subparagraph (A);

“(C) violate an we voting agreement previously approved by
the appropriate Federal banking agency; or

‘“D) vote for a director, or serve or act as an institution-
affiliated party.”’.

(4) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 455

(A) Section 8(f) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
U.S.C. 1818(f)) is amended—
(i) by striking out ‘“(e)(4)” and inserting in lieu
thereof “(e)(3)”; and
_ Gi) by striking out “(e)(1), (eX(2), or (e)(3)” and insert-
nee thereof “(e)(1) or (e)(2)”.
B) nm &(g\1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
(12 U.S.C. 1818(@)) i is amended by Brick out “(1), (2), (3),
or (4)” and inserting in lieu thereof “(1), (2), or (3)”.
(b) Creprr Unions INsurED By THE NCUA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 206(g)\(1) of the Federal Credit Union
Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(g\(1)) is amended to read as follows:
“(g) REMOVAL AND PROHIBITION AUTHORITY.—
“(1) AUTHORITY TO ISSUE ORDER.—Whenever the Board deter-
mines that—
_“(A) any institution-affiliated party has, directly or in-

‘(i) violated—
mu) any law or regulation;
any cease-and-desist order which has ,

become final;

“(il) any ‘condition imposed in writing by the
Board in connection with the grant of any applica-
tion or other request by such credit union; or

“(IV) any written agreement between such credit

union and the Board;

“(ii) engaged or participated in any unsafe or un-
sound practice in connection with any insured credit
union or business institution; or

“(ii) committed or engaged in any act, omission, or
pr ractice which constitutes a breach of such party’s

duciary duty;

“(B) by reason of the violation, practice, or breach de-
scribed in any clause of sub ph (A)—

“(i) such insured it union or business institution
has suffered or will probably suffer financial loss or
other damage;

“(ii) the interests of the insured credit union’s mem-
bers have been or could be prejudiced; or

“(iii) such party has received financial gain or other
— by reason of such violation, practice or breach;
an

“(C) such violation, practice, or breach—
“(i) involves personal dishonesty on the part of such

party; or
“(ii) demonstrates such party’s unfitness to serve as a

director or officer of, or to otherwise participate in the

conduct of the affairs of, an insured credit union,
the Board may serve upon such party a written notice of the
Board’s intention to remove such party from office or to prohibit
any further participation, by such y, in any manner in the
conduct of the affairs of any insured credit union.’

(2) TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OR PROHIBITION. —Section 206(g) of
the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(g)) is amended by
striking out paragraphs (2) and (4), by redesignating paragraphs
(3) sty (5) as paragraphs (2) and (4), respectively, and by insert-
103 STAT. 456 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

ing after paragraph (2) (as so redesignated) the following new

agraph:

(3) SUSPENSION ORDER.—

“(A) SUSPENSION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.—If the
Board serves written notice under paragraph (1) or (2) to
any institution-affiliated party of the Board’s intention to
issue an order under such paragraph, the Board may sus-
pend such party from office or prohibit such party from
further participation in any manner in the conduct of the
affairs of the institution, if the Board—

“(i) determines that such action is necessary for the
protection of the credit union or the interests of the
credit union’s members; and

“(ii) serves such person with written notice of the
suspension order.

“(B) EFFECTIVE PERIOD.—Any suspension order issued
under subparagraph (A)—

“(i) shall become effective upon service; and

“(ii) unless a court issues a stay of such order under
peesenenn (6), shall remain in effect and enforceable
until—

“(1) the date the Board dismisses the charges
contained in the notice served under paragraph (1)
or (2) with respect to such party; or

“UD the effective date of an order issued by the
Board to such person under paragraph (1) or (2).

“(C) Copy or orDER.—If the Board issues a suspension
order under subparagraph (A) to any institution-affiliated
party, the Board shall serve a copy of such order on any
insured credit union with which such party is associated at
the time such order is issued.”.

(3) PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN SPECIFIC ACTIVITIES REQUIRED.—
Section 206(g) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C.
1786(g)) is amended by adding after paragraph (4) (as so redesig-
nated by pareararh (2) of this subsection) the following new

paragraph:
“(5) PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN SPECIFIC ACTIVITIES.—Any person
subject to an order issued under this subsection shall not—
“(A) participate in any manner in the conduct of the
prey of any institution or agency specified in paragraph
“(B) solicit, procure, transfer, attempt to transfer, vote, or
attempt to vote any proxy, consent, or authorization with
respect to any voting rights in any institution described in
subparagraph (A);
“(C) violate any voting agreement previously approved by
the appropriate Federal banking agency; or
“(D) vote for a director, or serve or act as an institution-
affiliated party.”.
(4) CoNFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 206(g\6) of the Fed-
eral Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(g\6)) is amended—
(A) by striking out -paregrevh (4)” and inserting in lieu
thereof “paragraph (3)”;
(B) by striking out “dy, ©), or (3)” and inserting in lieu
thereof (1) or (2)”.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 457

(e) Errecrive Date.—The amendments made by this section shall 12 USC 1786
apply with respect to violations committed and activities engaged in ote.
r the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 904. INDUSTRYWIDE APPLICATION OF REMOVAL, SUSPENSION, AND
PROHIBITION ORDERS.

(a) Derostrory InstrruTIONS INSURED BY THE FDIC.—Section 8(e)
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(e)) is amended
by inserting after the paragraph added by section 903(a\3) of this
Act the following new paragraph:

“(7) INDUSTRYWIDE PROHIBITION.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph
(B), any person who, pursuant to an order issued under this
subsection or subsection (g), has been removed or suspended
from office in an insured depository institution or prohib-
ited from participating in the conduct of the affairs of an
insured depository institution may not, while such order is
in effect, continue or commence to hold any office in, or
participate in any manner in the conduct of the affairs of—

‘(i) any insured depository institution;

“(ii) any institution treated as an insured bank under
subsection (bX3) or (bX4), or as a savings association
under subsection (bX8);

“(iii) any insured credit union under the Federal
Credit Union Act;

“(iv) any institution chartered under the Farm Credit
Act of 1971;

“(vy) any appropriate Federal depository institution

atory agency;
(vi) the Federal Boul Finance Board and any
Federal home loan bank; an

“(vii) the Resolution Trust Corporation.

“(B) EXCEPTION IF AGENCY PROVIDES WRITTEN CONSENT.—
If, on or after the date an order is issued under this
subsection which removes or suspends from office any
institution-affiliated or prohibits such party from
participating in the conduct of the affairs of an insured
nt a institution, such party receives the written con-
sent of—

“(i) the agency that issued such order; and

“(ii) the appropriate Federal financial institutions
regulatory agency of the institution described in any
clause of subparagraph (A) with respect to which such
party proposes to become an _institution-affiliated

party,

subparagraph (A) shall, to the extent of such consent, cease
to apply to such party with respect to the institution de-
scribed in each written consent. Any agency that grants Reports.
such a written consent shall report such action to the Public _
Corporation and publicly disclose such consent. information.

“(C) VIOLATION OF PARAGRAPH TREATED AS VIOLATION OF
ORDER.—Any violation of subparagraph (A) by any person
who is subject to an order described in such subparagraph
shall be treated as a violation of the order.

“(D) APPROPRIATE FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS REGU-
LATORY AGENCY DEFINED.—For purposes of this paragraph
103 STAT. 458

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

and subsection (j), the term ‘ ‘appropriate Federal financial
institutions regulatory agency” means—
“() the appropriate Federal banking agency, in the
case of an insured depository institution;
“(ii) the Farm Credit Administration, in the case of
> peeeiiion chartered under the Farm Credit Act of
“(iii) the National Credit Union Administration
Board, in the case of an insured credit union (as defined
in section 101(7) of the Federal Credit Union Act);
“(iv) the Secretary of the Treasury, in the case of the
ederal Housing Finance Board an ‘any Federal home
loan bank; and
“(v) the Oversight Board, in the case of the Resolu-
tion Trust Corporation.

“(E) CONSULTATION BETWEEN AGENCIES.—The agencies re-
ferred to in clauses (i) and (ii) of subparagraph (B) shall
consult with each other before ‘diene any written con-
sent described in subparagraph

“(F) AppLicaBiLity.—This paragraph shall only apply to a

rson who is an individual, exe e appropriate Federal

agency specificall y finds that it should apply to a
corporation, firm, or other business ente rise.’

(b) Creprr Unions Insurep By THE NCUA. ion 206(gX7) of
the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(gX7)) is amended to
read as follows:

“(7) INDUSTRYWIDE PROHIBITION.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph (B),
any person who, pursuant to an order issued under this subsec-
tion or subsection (i), has been removed or suspended from office
in an insured credit union or prohibited from participating in
the conduct of the affairs of an insured credit union may not,
while such order is in effect, continue or commence to hold any
office in, or participate in any manner in the conduct of the
affairs of—

“(i) any insured depository institution;

“(ii) any institution treated as an insured bank under
persgrept: (3) or (4) of section 8(b) of the Federal Deposit

urance Act, or as a savings association under section
8(b\(8) of such Act;

“(iii) any insured credit union;

Pe any institution chartered under the Farm Credit Act
o ;

“(v) any appropriate Federal depository institution regu-
latory agency;

“(vi) e Federal Housing Finance Board and any Federal
home ian and

“(vii) the Rasalution Trust Corporation.

“(B) EXCEPTION IF AGENCY PROVIDES WRITTEN CONSENT.—
If, on or after the date an order is issued under this
subsection which removes a suspends from office any
institution-affiliated pen oF ote such party from
participating in the uct P the affairs of an insured
credit union, such denies the written consent of—

(i) the ; and
“Gii) the appropriate Federal financial institutions
regulatory agency of the institution described in any
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 459

clause of subparagraph (A) with respect to which such
party proposes to become an _institution-affiliated

party,
subparagraph (A) shall, to the extent of such consent, cease
to apply to such party with to the institution de-
scribed in each written consent. If any person receives such
a Metinbiel coamed teas te Oaaed tee Minted abel camticly
disclose such consent. If the agency referred to in clause (i1) Reports.
grants such a written consent, such agency shall report tr snd
such action to the Board and publicly disclose such consent. '!r™mation.
“(C) VIOLATION OF PARAGRAPH TREATED AS VIOLATION OF
orpER.—Any violation of subparagraph (A) by any person
who is subject to an order described in such subparagraph
shall be treated as a violation of the order.
“(D) APPROPRIATE FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS REGU-
LATORY AGENCY DEFINED.—For purposes of oe persaceph
and subsection (1), the term “appropriate Fede
institutions regulatory agency” means—
‘(i) the appropriate Federal banking agency, as pro-
ye in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit nsurance

“(ii) the Farm Credit Administration, in the case of
er — chartered under the Farm Credit Act of
“Gii) the National Credit Union Administration
Board, in the case of an insured credit union (as defined
in section 101(7) of the Federal Credit Union Act);

““(iv) the Secretary of the , in the case of the
ee Housing Finance Board and any Federal home
oan

“(y) the Oversight Board, in the case of the Resolu-
tion Trust Corporation.

“(E) CONSULTATION BETWEEN AGENCIES.—The agencies re-
ferred to in clauses (i) and (ii) of subparagraph (B) shall
consult with each other before ie ees any written con-
sent described in subparagraph

“(F) APPLICABILITY.— h shall only apply to a
person who is an ssdivileal’ wales the Board s cally
finds that it should apply toa asian, firm, or other
business enterprise.”’.

SEC. 905. ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS ALLOWED AFTER SEPARATION
FROM SERVICE.

(a) Deposrrory InstrruTIONS INSURED BY THE FDIC.—Section &(i) of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(i)) is amended by
adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:

“(3) NOTICE UNDER THIS SECTION AFTER SEPARATION FROM SERV-
1ce.—The resignation, termination of poet or participa-
tion, or separation of an institution-affiliated party (including a
separation caused by the closing of an insured depository
institution) shall not affect the jurisdiction and authority y of the
appropriate Federal banking agency to issue any notice and
proceed under this section against any such party, if such notice
is served before the end of the Sane period beginning on the
date such party ceased to be such a party with respect to such
depository institution (whether such date occurs before, on, or
after the date of the enactment of this paragraph).”’.
103 STAT. 460 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(b) Creprr Untons INsurRED By THE NCUA.—Section 206(k) of the
Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(k)) is amended by adding
at the end thereof the following new paragraph:

“(3) NOTICE UNDER THIS SECTION AFTER SEPARATION FROM SERV-
1cE.—The resignation, termination of employment or participa-
tion, or separation of a institution-affiliated party (including a
separation caused by the closing of an insured credit union)
shall not affect the jurisdiction and authority of the Board to
issue any notice and proceed under this section against any
such , if such notice is served before the end of the 6-year
period beginning on the date such party ceased to be such a
party with respect to such credit union (whether such date
occurs before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this
paragraph).”.

(c) CHANGE IN CONTROL oF Deposrrory InstiTuTION.—Section
7(jX15) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(jX15)) is
amended by adding at the end thereof the following new sentence:
“The resignation, termination of employment or participation,
divestiture of control, or separation of or by an institution-affiliated
party (including a separation caused by the closing of a depository
institution) shall not affect the jurisdiction and authority of the
appropriate Federal banking agency to issue any notice and proceed
under this subsection against any such party, if such notice is served
before the end of the 6-year period beginning on the date such party
ceased to be such a party with respect to such depository institution
(whether such date occurs before, on, or after the date of the
enactment of this sentence).”.

(d) NONMEMBER INSURED BANKS AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—
Section 18(j) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(j))
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(6) NOTICE UNDER THIS SECTION AFTER SEPARATION FROM SERV-
1ck.—The resignation, termination of employment or participa-
tion, or separation of an institution-affiliated party (including a
separation caused by the closing of a nonmember bank or a
savings association) shall not affect the jurisdiction and author-
ity of the Corporation or the Director of the Office of Thrift
Supervision, as appropriate, to issue any notice and proceed
under this section against any such party, if such notice is
served before the end of the 6-year period beginning on the date
such party ceased to be such a party with respect to such
nonmember bank or such savings association (whether such
date occurs before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this
paragraph).”.

(e) NationaL Banxks.—Section 5239 of the Revised Statutes (12
U.S.C. 93) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following
new subsection:

“(c) Notice Unper Tuts Section Arrer SEPARATION From SErv-
1ck.—The resignation, termination of employment or participation,
or separation of an institution-affiliated party (within the meaning
of section 3(u) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) with respect to
such an association (including a separation caused by the closing of
such an association) shall not affect the jurisdiction and authority of
the Comptroller of the Currency to issue any notice and proceed
under this section against any such party, if such notice is served
before the end of the 6-year period beginning on the date such party
ceased to be such a party with respect to such association (whether
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

such date occurs before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this
subsection).”.

(f) MemBer Banks.—Section 29 of the Federal Reserve Act (12
U.S.C. 504(a)), as added by section 907(g) of this Act, is amended by
adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(m) Notice UNpEer Tus Secrion Arrer SEPARATION FROM SERV-
1cE.—The resignation, termination of employment or participation,
or separation of an institution-affiliated party (within the meaning
of section 3(u) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) with respect to
a member bank (including a separation caused ve the closing of such
a bank) shall not affect the jurisdiction and authority of the appro-
priate Federal banking agency to issue any notice and proceed
under this section against any such party, if such notice is served
before the end of the 6-year period beginning on the date such vk 4
ceased to be such a party with respect to such bank (whether suc
date occurs before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this
subsection).”.

) Memper Banxs.—Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act (12
U.S.C. 505) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following
new subsection:

“(m) Notice UnpEr Tuis Section Arrer SEPARATION FROM SrErv-
1ce.—The resignation, termination of employment or participation,
or separation of an institution-affiliated party (within the meaning
of section 3(u) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) with respect to
a member bank (including a separation caused by the closing of such
a bank) shall not affect the jurisdiction and authority of the Board
to issue any notice and proceed under this section against any such

arty, if such notice is served before the end of the 6-year period
tSotnuing on the date such party ceased to be such a party with
respect to such bank (whether such date occurs before, on, or after
the date of the enactment of this subsection).”’.

(h) Banxs.—Section 106(b)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act
Amendments of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1972(2)) is amended by adding at the
end the following new subparagraph:

“(I) Notice Unper Tuis Section Arrer SEPARATION From SErv-
1ce.—The resignation, termination of employment or participation,
or separation of an institution-affiliated party (within the meaning
of section 3(u) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) with respect to
such a bank (including a separation caused by the closing of such a
bank) shall not affect the jurisdiction and authority of the appro-
priate Federal banking agency to issue any notice and proceed
under this section against any such party, if such notice is served
before the end of the 6-year period beginning on the date such party
ceased to be such a party with respect to such bank (whether suc
date occurs before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this
subparagraph).”.

(i) BanK Hotprina Companies.—Section 8 of the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1847) is amended by adding at the
end the following new subsection:

“(c) Notice UNpEr Tus Section Arrer SEPARATION FRom SERv-
iceE.—The resignation, termination of employment or participation,
or separation of an institution-affiliated party (within the meaning
of section 3(u) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) with to
a bank holding company >. separation caused by the
deregistration of such a company) s not affect the jurisdiction
and authority of the Board to issue any notice and proceed under
this section against any such party, if such notice is served before

103 STAT. 461

12 USC 506.
103 STAT. 462

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

the end of the 6-year period beginning on the date such party ceased
to be such a party with respect to such holding company (whether
such date occurs before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this
subsection).”.

(j) Savincs AND Loan Ho.pinc Compantgs.—Section 10(i) of the
Home Owners’ Loan Act (as amended by section 301 of this Act) is
amended by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:

“(5) Norick UNDER THIS SECTION AFTER SEPARATION FROM SERV-
1ce.—The resignation, termination of employment or participa-
tion, or separation of an institution-affiliated party (within the
meaning of section 3(u) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act)
with respect to a savings and loan holding company or subsidi-
ary thereof (including a separation caused by the deregistration
of such a company or such a subsidiary) shall not affect the
jurisdiction and authority of the Director to issue any notice
and proceed under this section against any such party, if such
notice is served before the end of the 6-year period beginning on
the date such party ceased to be such a party with respect to
such holding company or its subsidiary (whether such date
occurs before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this

paragraph).”.
SEC. 906 EXPANSION OF REMOVAL POWERS FOR STATE CRIMINAL
PROCEEDINGS.

(a) Deposrrory Institutions INSURED By THE FDIC.—Section
a the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(g)(1)) is
amended—

(1) in the Ist sentence, by striking “authorized by a United

States yoay an
(2) in the 4th sentence, red striking “‘with respect to such
crime” and inserting in lieu thereof “or an agreement to enter a

pre-trial diversion or other similar peren
(b) Creprr Unions INSURED BY THE N .—Section 206(i)(1) of the
Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(i)) is amended—
(1) in the Ist sentence, by striking “authorized by a United
States Attorney”; and
(2) in the 4th sentence, by striking “with respect to such
crime” and inserting in lieu thereof “or an agreement to enter a
pre-trial diversion or other similar program”.

SEC. 997. AMENDMENTS TO EXPAND AND INCREASE CIVIL MONEY
PENALTIES.

(a) GENERAL Provisions ror Depository INSTITUTIONS INSURED BY
THE FDIC.—Section 8(i2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
U.S.C. 1818(i)(2)) is amended to read as follows:

“(2) CiviL MONEY PENALTY.—
“(A) First trer.—Any insured depository institution
which, and any institution-affiliated party who—
“(i) violates any law or regulation;
“(ii) violates any final order or temporary order
issued pursuant to subsection (b), (c), (e), (g), or (s);
“(iii) violates any condition imposed in writing by the
appropriate Federal banking agency in connection with
the grant of any application or other request by such
depository institution; or
‘(iv) violates any written agreement between such
depository institution and such agency,
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 463

shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more than $5,000
for each day during which such violation continues.

“(B) Seconp T1ER.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (A),
any insured depository institution which, and any institu-
tion-affiliated party who—

“(i1) commits any violation described in any clause
of sub ph (A);

“dp y engages in an unsafe or unsound
practice in conducting the affairs of such insured
depository institution; or

(III) breaches any fiduciary duty;

“ape which violation, practice, or breach—

“() is part of a pattern of misconduct;

“(II) causes or is likely to cause more than a
minimal loss to such depository institution; or

“(III) results in pecuniary gain or other benefit
to such party,
shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more than
$25,000 for each day during which such violation, practice,
or breach continues.

“(C) Tuirp trer.—Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A)
and (B), any insured depository institution which, and any
institution-affiliated party who—

“(i) knowingly—

“(I) commits any violation described in any
clause of subparagraph (A);

“(ID engages in any unsafe or unsound practice
in conducting the affairs of such depository institu-
tion; or

“(IID breaches any fiduciary duty; and

“(ii) knowingly or recklessly causes a substantial loss
to such depository institution or a substantial pecu-
niary gain or other benefit to such party by reason of
such violation, practice, or breach,

shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty in an amount not to
exceed the ee ee @ maximum amount determined under
subparagraph (D) for each day during which such violation,
practice, or breach continues.

“(D) MAXIMUM AMOUNTS OF PENALTIES FOR ANY VIOLATION
DESCRIBED IN SUBPARAGRAPH (C).—The maximum daily
amount of any civil ty which may be assessed pursu-
ant to subparagraph (C) for any violation, practice, or
breach described in such subparagraph is—

“(i) in the case of any person other than an insured
deposi institution, an amount to not exceed
$1,000,000; and

“(ii) in the case of any insured depository institution,
an amount not to exceed the lesser of—

“(T) $1,000,000; or

“(II) 1 percent of the total assets of such institu-
tion.

ASSESSMENT.—

“(ij) WritTEN NoTICE.—Any penalty imposed under
apenas (A), (B), or (C) may be assessed and col-
lected by the appropriate Federal banking agency by
written notice.
103 STAT. 464

PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989

“(ii) FINALITY OF ASSESSMENT.—If, with respect to any
assessment under clause (i), a hearing i is not requested
pursuant to subparagraph (H) within the period of time
allowed under such subparagraph, the assessment shall
constitute a final and unappealable order.

“(F) AUTHORITY TO MODIFY OR REMIT PENALTY.—Any
appropriate Federal rig ncy may compromise,
modify, or mee any phot ins Pee such agency may assess
or er sobparegeach (A), (B), or (C).

*(G) Meriaeniea FACTORS.—In determining the amount of
any penalty imposed under subparagraph (A), (B), or (C),
the appropriate agency shall take into account the appro-
priateness of the penalty with respect to—

“(i) the size of financial resources and good faith of
the insured depository institution or other person
charged;

“(ii) the gravity of the violation;

“(iii) the history of previous violations; and

“(iv) such other matters as justice may require.

G.—The insured depository institution or

other person against whom any penalty is assessed under
this paragraph shall be afforded an agency hearing if such
institution or person submits a request for such hearing
within 20 days after the issuance of the notice of assess-
ment.

“(I) CoLLECTION.—

“(i) RererrAL.—If any insured depository institution
or other person fails to pay an assessment after any
penalty assessed under this satin has become
final, the agency that imposed the ty shall recover
the amount assessed by aiticn in the appropriate
United States district court.

“(ii) APPROPRIATENESS OF PENALTY NOT REVIEWABLE.—
In any civil action under clause (i), the validity and
appropriateness of the penalty shall not be subject to
review.

“(J) DisBuRSEMENT.—AIl penalties collected under
authority of this paragraph shall be deposited into the
Treasury

“(K) ‘Raourarions.— —Each appropriate Federal banking
agency shall prescribe regulations establishing such proce-
dures as may be necessary to carry out this paragraph.”.

(b) GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR CREDIT UNIONS INSURED BY THE

NCUA.—Section 206(k\(2) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C.
1786(k\(2)) is amended to read as follows:

*(2) CrvIL MONEY PENALTY.—

“(A) First TIER.— insured credit union which, and
any institution-affiliated party who—

“(i) violates any law or regulation;

“(ii) violates any final order or temporary order
issued pursuant to subsection (e), (f), (g), (i), or (q);

“(iii) violates any condition imposed in sare by the
Board in connection with the grant of any application
or other request by such credit union; or

“(iv) violates any written agreement between such
credit union and such agency,
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 465

shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more than $5,000
for each day during which such violation continues.

te SEcoND TiER.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (A),

y insured credit union which, and any institution-affili-
end party who—

“iD commits any violation described in any clause
of 7 pa ft a );

“(II) recklessly engages in an unsafe or unsound
practice in conducting the affairs of such credit union;
or

““(II) breaches any fiduciary duty;

“(ii) which violation, practice, or breach—

“(1 is part of a pattern of misconduct;
“(II) causes or is likely to cause more than a
minimal loss to such credit union; or
“(IID results in pecuniary gain or other benefit
to such party,
shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more than
$25,000 for each day during which such violation, practice,
or breach continues.

“(C) Turrp tirer.—Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A)
and (B), any insured credit union which, and any institu-
tion-affiliated party who—

“(i) knowingly—

“() commits any violation described in any
clause of subparagraph (A);
“(ID engages in any unsafe or unsound practice
in condu: the affairs of such credit union; or
“(IID breaches any fiduciary duty; and

“(ii) knowingly or recklessly causes a substantial loss
to such credit union or a substantial pecuniary gain or
other benefit to such party by reason of such violation,
practice, or breach,

shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty in an amount not to
exceed the applicable maximum amount determined under
subparagraph (D) for each day during which such violation,
practice, or breach continues.

“(D) AMOUNTS OF PENALTIES FOR ANY VIOLATION
DESCRIBED IN SUBPARAGRAPH (C).—The maximum daily
amount of any civil penalty which may be assessed pursu-
ant to subparagraph (C) for any violation, practice, or
breach described in such subparagraph is—

“(j) in the case of any person other than an insured
credit union, an amount to not exceed $1,000,000; and

“(ii) in the case of any insured credit union, an
amount not to exceed the lesser of—

“(I) $1,000,000; or
“(ID 1 percent of the total assets of such credit

union.
“(E) ASSESSMENT.—

“(j) WrIrTEN NOTICE.—Any penalty imposed under
subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) may be assessed and col-
lected by the Board by written notice.

“(i) FINALITY OF ASSESSMENT.—If, with respect to any
assessment under clause (i), a hearing is not requested
pursuant to subparagraph (H) within the period of time
103 STAT. 466

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

allowed under such subparagraph, the assessment shall
constitute a final and unappealable order.

“(F) AUTHORITY TO MODIFY OR REMIT PENALTY.—The Board
may compromise, modify, or remit any penalty which such
agency may assess or had already assessed under subpara-
graph (A), (B), or (C).

“(G) MiTIGATING FACTORS.—In determining the amount of
any ty imposed under subparagraph (A), (B), or (C),
the shall take into account the appropriateness of
the penalty with respect to—

“(i) the size of financial resources and good faith of
the insured credit union or the person charged;

“(ii) the gravity of the violation;

“(iii) the history of previous violations; and

“(iv) such other matters as justice may require.

“(H) Hearinc.—The insured credit union or other person
against whom any penalty is assessed under this paragraph
shall be afforded an agency hearing if such institution or
person submits a request for such hearing within 20 days
after the issuance of the notice of assessment.

“(TD CoLLEcTION.—

“(i) REFERRAL.—If any insured credit union or other
person fails to pay an assessment after any penalty
assessed under this paragraph has become final, the
Board shall recover the amount assessed by action in
the appropriate United States district court.

(ii) APPROPRIATENESS OF PENALTY NOT REVIEWABLE.—
In any civil action under clause (i), the validity and
appropriateness of the penalty shall not be subject to
review.

“(J) DispuRSEMENT.—All penalties collected under
authority of this paragraph shall be deposited into the

ury.

“(K) VIOLATE DEFINED.—For purposes of this section, the
term ‘violate’ includes any action (alone or with another or
others) for or toward causing, bringing about, participating
in, counseling, or aiding or abetting a violation.

‘“(L) REGULATIONS.—The Board shall prescribe regula-
tions establishing such procedures as may be necessary to
carry out this paragraph.”.

(c) NONMEMBER INSURED BANKS AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.—
Paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 18) of the Federai Deposit Insur-
ance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(j)) are amended to read as follows:

“(4) CrviL MONEY PENALTY.—

“(A) First TrER.—Any nonmember insured bank or sav-
ings association which, and any institution-affiliated party
who, violates any provision of section 22(h), 23A, or 23B of
the Federal Reserve Act or any lawful regulation issued
pursuant thereto, and any nonmember insured bank which,
and any institution-affiliated party who, violates any provi-
sion of section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933, shall forfeit
and pay a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each day
during which such violation continues.

“(B) Seconp T1reR.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (A),
any nonmember insured bank or savings association which,
and any institution-affiliated party who—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 467

“(i1) commits any violation described in any clause
of sub ph (A);

“(I recklessly engages in an unsafe or unsound
peaction i in conducting the affairs of such bank or
association, as the case may be; or

“(IIl) breaches any fiduciary ‘duty;
“(ii) which violation, practice, or breach—
“(I) is part of a pattern of misconduct;
“(II) results in more than a minimal ‘loss to such
bank or association, as the case may be; or
“(III) causes or is likely to cause pecuniary gain
or other benefit to such party,
shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more than
$25,000 for each day during which such violation, practice,
or oe continues. + i hs (A)
‘“(C) Tuirp tTiER.—Notwithstanding subparagrap
and (B), any nonmember insured bank or savings associa-
tion which, and any institution-affiliated party who—
“i knowing ~~
“(I) commits any violation described in any
clause of subparagraph (A);
_ “(ID engages in unsafe or unsound practice

in conducting the affairs of such bank or associa-
aS or
“(IID breaches an any Sey duty; and
“(ii) knowingly or recklessly causes a substantial loss

to such bank or association or a substantial pecuniary
gain or other benefit to such party by reason of suc
violation, practice, or breach,

shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty in an amount not to

exceed the a —— maximum amount determined under

ate © (D) for each day during which such violation,

practice, or breach continues.

(D) MAXIMUM AMOUNTS OF PENALTIES FOR ANY VIOLATION
saan IN SUBPARAGRAPH (C).—The maximum daily
amount of any civil penalty which may be assessed pursu-
ant to subparagraph (C) ee any violation, practice, or
breach described in such subparagraph is—

“@) in the case of any person other than a
nonmember insured bank or savings association, an
amount to not exceed $1,000,000; and

“(ii) in the case of any nonmember insured bank or
savings association, an amount not to exceed the lesser

of—
“(T) $1,000,000; or
“(ID 1 percent of the total assets of such bank or
association.

"4 ASSESSMENT; ETC penal ee under
subparagraph (A), (B), or (© sha be ‘shall assessed and collected
by the appropriate Federal nena as ncy in the manner

rovided in subparagraphs (E), (F), (G), and (1) of section
RGD) for penalties im (under such section) and an

such assessment shall be subject to the provisions of suc
section.

“(F) Hearinc.—The nonmember insured bank, savings
association, or other person against whom any penalty is
assessed under this paragraph shall be afforded an agency
103 STAT. 468 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

hearing if such nonmember insured bank, savings associa-
tion, or other person submits a request for such hearing
within 20 days after the issuance of the notice of assess-
ment. Section 8(h) shall apply to any proceeding under this

paragraph.

‘(G) DispuRSEMENT.—AIl a nalties collected under
authority of this paragraph shall be deposited into the
Treasury.

“(5) REGULATIONS.—The appropriate Federal banking agency
shall prescribe regulations establishing such procedures as may
be necessary to carry out paragraph (4).”.

(dq) CHANGE IN ContTROoL oF Depository InstITUTION.—Section
7(jX16) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(jX16)) is
amended to read as follows:

“(16) CrviL MONEY PENALTY.—

“(A) First Trer.—Any person who violates any provision
oi ee subsection, or any regulation or order issued by the

ropriate Federal banking agency under this subsection,

Fil forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more than $5, 000

for each day during which such violation continues.

“(B) SECOND TIER.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (A),
any person who—

“ind oman any violation described in any clause
of subpar: ph (A);

“(ID) recklessly engages in an unsafe or unsound
practice i in conducting the affairs of a depository
institution; or

“(IID breaches any fiduciary duty;

“(ii) which violation, practice, or breach—

“(D) is part of a pattern of misconduct;

“(I causes or is likely to cause more than a
minimal loss to such institution; or

“(II]) results in pecuniary gain or other benefit
to such person,

shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more than
$25,000 for each day during which such violation, practice,
or breach continues.

“(C) Txirp trer.—Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A)
and (B), any person who—

“(i) knowingly—

“(I) commits any violation described in any
clause of subparagraph (A);

“(ID engages in - unsafe or unsound practice
in conducting the affairs of a depository institu-
tion; or

“(IIT) breaches an si Poin paca duty; and

“(ii) knowingly or recklessly causes a substantial loss
to such costitation or a substantial pecuniary gain or
other benefit to such person by reason of such violation,

ractice, or breach,

forfeit and pay a civil penalty in an amount not to

cctid the ayy maximum amount determined under
mibpernerer (D) for each day during which such violation,
Pet eon or breach continues.

MAXIMUM AMOUNTS OF PENALTIES FOR ANY VIOLATION
aeoen IN SUBPARAGRAPH (c).—The maximum daily
amount of any civil penalty which may be assessed pursu-
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 469

ant to subparagraph (C) for any violation, practice, or

breach described in such subparagraph is—
“(j) in the case of any person other than a depository
institution, an amount to not exceed $1,000,000; and
“(ii) in the case of a depository institution, an amount

not to exceed the lesser of—
“(D) $1,000,000; or
“(I1) 1 percent of the total assets of such institu-
tion.
“(E) ASSESSMENT; ETC.—Any penalty imposed under

subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) shall be assessed and collected
by the appropriate Federal banking agency in the manner
provided in subparagraphs (E), (F), (G), and (I) of section

8(iX2) for penalties im (under such section) and an
such assessment shall be subject to the provisions of suc
section.

“(F) Hearinc.—The depository institution or other
person against whom any penalty is assessed under this
paragraph shall be afforded an agency hearing if such
institution or other person submits a request for such hear-
ing within 20 days after the issuance of the notice of
assessment. Section &(h) shall apply to any proceeding
under this paragraph.

“(G) DispuRSEMENT.—AIl penalties collected under
peace of this paragraph shall be deposited into the

(e) sixes Biseui —Section 5239(b) of the Revised Statutes (12
U.S.C. 93(b)) is amended to read as follows:
“(b) Crvi. MongEy PENALTY.—

“(1) First Trer.—Any national banking association which, and
any institution-affiliated party (within the meaning of section
3(u) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) with respect to such
association who, violates any provision of this title or any of the
provisions of the first section of the Act of September 28, 1962,
(76 Stat. 668; 12 U.S.C. 92a), or any regulation issued pursuant
thereto, shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more than
$5,000 for each day during which such violation continues.

“(2) Seconp TieER.—Notwithstanding paragraph (1), any na-
tional banking association which, and any institution-affiliated
party (within the meaning of section 3(u) of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act) with respect to such association who, commits
any violation described in paragraph (1) which—

a commits any violation described in any paragraph
“(ii) recklessly engages in an unsafe or unsound practice
in condu the affairs of such association; or
“(iii) breaches any fiduciary duty;
“(B) which violation, practice, or breach—
“(i) is part of a pattern of misconduct;
“(ii) causes or is likely to cause more than a minimal
loss to such association; or
“(iii) results in pecuniary gain or other benefit to
such party,
shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more than $25,000 for
— day during which such violation, practice, or breach
continues.
103 STAT. 470

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(3) Tuirp TrER.—Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), any
national banking association which, and any institution-affili-
ated party (within the meaning of section 3(u) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act) with respect to such association who—

“(A) knowingly—

“(i) commits any violation described in paragraph (1);

“(ii) engages in any unsafe or unsound practice in
conducting the affairs of such association; or

(iii) breaches any fiduciary duty; and

“(B) knowingly or recklessly causes a substantial loss to
such association or a substantial pecuniary gain or other
benefit to such party by reason of such violation, practice,
or breach,

shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed
the applicable maximum amount determined under paragraph
(4) for each day during which such violation, practice, or breach
continues.

“(4) MAXIMUM AMOUNTS OF PENALTIES FOR ANY VIOLATION
DESCRIBED IN PARAGRAPH (3).—The maximum daily amount of
any civil penalty which may be assessed pursuant to paragraph
(3) for any violation, practice, or breach described in such
paragraph is—

“(A) in the case of any person other than a national
beans association, an amount to not exceed $1,000,000;
an

“(B) in the case of a national banking association, an
amount not to exceed the lesser of—

“(j) $1,000,000; or
“(ii) 1 percent of the total assets of such association.

“(5) ASSESSMENT; ETC.—Any penalty imposed under paragraph
(1), (2), or (3) shall be assessed and collected by the Comptroller
of the Currency in the manner provided in subparagraphs (E),
(F), (G), and (D of section 8(i\(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act for penalties imposed (under such section) and any such
assessment shall be subject to the provisions of such section.

“(6) HeARING.—The association or other person against whom
any penalty is assessed under this subsection shall be afforded
an agency hearing if such association or person submits a
request for such hearing within 20 days after the issuance of the
notice of assessment. Section 8(h) of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act shall apply to any proceeding under this subsection.

“(7) DisBURSEMENT.—AIl penalties collected under authority
of this subsection shall be deposited into the Treasury.

“(8) VIOLATE DEFINED.—For purposes of this section, the term
‘violate’ includes any action (alone or with another or others)
for or toward causing, bringing about, participating in, counsel-
ing, or aiding or abetting a violation.

“(12) RecuLations.—The Comptroller shall prescribe regula-

‘tions establishing such procedures as may be necessary to carry

out this subsection.”’.

(f) NATIONAL Banks.—The 2d paragraph of section 5240 of the

Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 481) is amended by striking “$100” and
inserting “$5,000”.

U.

) MempBer Banxs.—Section 29 of the Federal Reserve Act (12

.C. 504) is amended to read as follows:
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 471

“SEC. 29. CIVIL MONEY PENALTY.

“(a) First Trer.—Any member bank which, and any institution-
affiliated party (within the meaning of section 3(u) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act) with to such member bank who,
violates any provision of section 22, 23A, or 23B, or any regulation
issued pursuant thereto, shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not
more $5,000 for each day during which such violation contin-
ues.
“(b) SEconD TIER.—Notwithstanding subsection (a), any member
bank which, and any institution-affiliated party (within the mean-
ing of section 3(u) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) with respect
to such member bank who

“(1(A) commits any violation described in subsection (a);
“(B) recklessly engages in an unsafe or unsound practice in
conducting the affairs of such member bank; or
“(C) breaches any fiduciary duty;
“(2) which violation, practice, or breach—
“(A) is part of a pattern of misconduct;
“(B) causes or is likely to cause more than a minimal loss
to such member bank; or
“(C) results in pecuniary gain or other benefit to such

party,
shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more than $25,000 for
each day during which such violation, practice, or breach continues.
“(c) Tarp Trer.—Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), any
member bank which, and any institution-affiliated party (within the
meaning of section 3(u) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) with
respect to such member bank who—
“(1) knowingly—
“(A) commits any violation described in subsection (a);
“(B) e es in any unsafe or unsound practice in
conducting the affairs of such credit union; or
“(C) breaches any fiduciary duty; and
“(2) knowingly or recklessly causes a substantial loss to such
credit union or a substantial pecuniary gain or other benefit to
such by reason of such violation, practice, or breach,
shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed the
applicable maximum amount determined under subsection (d) for
each day during which such violation, practice, or breach continues.
“(d) MaximuM AMOUNTS OF PENALTIES FOR ANY VIOLATION DeE-
SCRIBED IN SUBSECTION (c).—The maximum daily amount of any civil
penalty which may be assessed pursuant to subsection (c) for any
violation, practice, or breach described in such subsection is—
“(1) in the case of any person other than a member bank, an
amount to not exceed $1,000,000; and
“(2) in the case of a member bank, an amount not to exceed
the lesser of—
“(A) $1,000,000; or
‘“B) 1 percent of the total assets of such member bank.
“(e) ASSESSMENT; ETC.—Any penalty imposed under subsection (a),
(b), or (c) shall be assessed and collected by
“(1) in the case of a national bank, by the Comptroller of the
Currency; and
*(2) in the case of a State member bank, by the Board,
in the manner —_— in subparagraphs (E), (F), (G), and (1) of
section 8(i(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act for penalties
103 STAT. 472 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

imposed (under such section) and any such assessment shall be
subject to the provisions of such section.

“(f) HEARING.—The member bank or other person against whom
any penalty is assessed under this section shall be afforded an
agency hearing if such member bank or person submits a request for
such hearing within 20 days after the issuance of the notice of
assessment. ion 8(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act shall
apply to any proceeding under this section.

‘(g) DisBURSEMENT.—AIl penalties collected under authority of
this paragraph shall be deposited into the Treasury.

“(h) VIOLATE DEeFINED.—For purposes of this section, the term
‘violate’ includes any action (alone or with another or others) for or
toward causing, bringing about, participating in, counseling, or
aiding or abetting a violation.

“Gj) ReGuLations.—The Comptroller of the Currency and the
Board shall prescribe regulations establishing such procedures as
may be necessary to carry out this section.”’.

(h) Memper Banxk.—Section 19(1) of the Federal Reserve Act (12
U.S.C. 505(1)) is amended to read as follows:

“() Crvit Monry PENALTY.—

“(1) First TreER.—Any member bank which, and any institu-
tion-affiliated party (within the meaning of section 3(u) of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act) with respect to such member
bank who, violates any provision of this section, or any regula-
tion issued pursuant thereto, shall forfeit and pay a civil pen-
alty of not more than $5,000 for each day during which such
violation continues.

(2) Seconp tTrerR.—Notwithstanding paragraph (1), any
member bank which, and any institution-affiliated party
(within the meaning of section 3(u) of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act) with respect to such member bank who—

“(A\i) commits any violation described in paragraph (1);

“(ii) recklessly engages in an unsafe or unsound practice
in conducting the affairs of such member bank; or

“(iii) breaches any fiduciary duty;

*“B) which violation, practice, or breach—

“(i) is part of a pattern of misconduct;
“(i) causes or is likely to cause more than a minimal
loss to such member bank; or
“Gii) results in pecuniary gain or other benefit to
such party,
shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more than
$25,000 for each day during which such violation, practice,
or breach continues.

“(3) TuirRD TIER.—Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2),
any member bank which, and any institution-affiliated
perey (within the meaning of section 3(u) of the Federal

posit Insurance Act) with respect to such member bank
who—

“(A) knowingly—

“(j) commits any violation described in paragraph (1);

“(ii) engages in any unsafe or unsound practice in
conducting the affairs of such member bank; or

“(iii) breaches any fiduciary duty; and

“(B) knowingly or recklessly causes a substantial loss to
such member bank or a substantial pecuniary gain or other
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 473

pene = such party by reason of such violation, practice,
or breach,

shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed
the applicable maximum amount determined under paragraph
(4) for each day during which such violation, practice, or breach
continues.

“(4) MAXIMUM AMOUNTS OF PENALTIES FOR ANY VIOLATION
DESCRIBED IN PARAGRAPH (3).—The maximum daily amount of
any civil penalty which may be assessed pursuant to ph
(3) for any violation, practice, or breach descri in such

paragraph is—

“ea in the case of any person other than a member bank,
an amount not to exceed $1,000,000; and

“(B) in the case of a member bank, an amount not to
exceed the lesser of—

“(j) $1,000,000; or

“(ii) 1 percent of the total assets of such member
“(5) ASSESSMENT; ETC.—Any penalty imposed under paragraph
(1), (2), 0 ey on aaeiees Oot Se ected b the Board in the
manner provided in subparagraphs (E), (F), (G), and (1) of section
8(iX2) of the Federal Deposit ce Act for penalties im-
(under such section) and any such assessment shall be

subject to the provisions of such section.

“(6) Heartnc.—The member bank or other person against
whom any penalty is assessed under this subsection shall be
afforded an agency hearing if such member bank or person
submits a request for such hearing within 20 ef after the
issuance of the notice of assessment. Section 8(h) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act shall apply to any proceeding under this
subsection.

“(7) DisBURSEMENT.—All penalties collected under authority
of this subsection shall be deposited into the ,

“(8) VIOLATE DEFINED.—For purposes of this section, the term
‘violate’ includes any action (alone or with another or others)
for or toward causing, bringing about, participating in, counsel-
ing, or aiding or oben ® violation.

‘9) ReGuLations.—The Board shall prescribe regulations
establishing such procedures as may be necessary to carry out
this subsection.”’.

(i) Banxs.—Section 106(bX2)(F) of the Bank Holding Company Act
ce of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1972(2XF)) is amended to read as
ollows:
“(F) Crvi MONEY PENALTY.—

“(j) First Trer.—Any bank which, and any institution-affili-

ated party (within the meaning of section du) of the Federal

Deposit Insurance Act) with to such bank who, violates
any provision of this shall forfeit and pay a civil

ty of not more than Se for each day during which such
violation continues.

“Gii) Seconp tier.—Notwithstanding clause (i), any bank
which, and any institution-affiliated party (within the meani
of section 3(u) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) with
respect to such bank who—

“(aa) commits any violation described in clause (i);
“(bb) recklessly engages in an unsafe or unsound practice
in conducting the affairs of such bank; or
103 STAT. 474

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(cc) breaches any fiduciary duty;
“(II) which violation, practice, or breach—
“(aa) is part of a pattern of misconduct;
(bb) causes or is likely to cause more than a minimal
loss to such bank; or
Bs results in pecuniary gain or other benefit to
suc :
shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more than $25,000 for
each day during which such violation, practice, or breach
continues.

“Gii) Turrp oe clauses (i) and (ii), any
bank which, and any institution-affiliated party (within the
meaning of section 3(u) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act)
with res to such bank who—

“(D knowingly—
“(aa) commits any violation described in clause (i);
“(bb) engages in any unsafe or unsound practice in
conducting the affairs of such bank; or
“(cc) breaches any fiduciary duty; and
“(II) knowingly or recklessly causes a substantial loss to
such bank or a substantial pecuniary gain or other benefit
_ ca party by reason of such violation, practice, or
reach,
shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed
the applicable maximum amount determined under clause (iv)
for each day during which such violation, practice, or breach
continues.

“(iv) MAXIMUM AMOUNTS OF PENALTIES FOR ANY VIOLATION
DESCRIBED IN CLAUSE (iii)—The maximum daily amount of any
civil penalty which may be assessed pursuant to clause (iii) for
any violation, practice, or breach described in such clause is—

“(l) in the case of any person other than a bank, an
amount to not exceed $1,000,000; and
“(II in the case of a bank, an amount not to exceed the
lesser of—
“(aa) $1,000,000; or
“(bb) 1 percent of the total assets of such bank.

“(v) ASSESSMENT; ETC.—Any penalty imposed under clause (i),
(ii), or (iii) may be assessed and collected—

“(I) in the case of a national bank, by the Comptroller of
the Currency;

Oa in the case of a State member bank, by the Board;
an

“(IID in the case of an insured nonmember State bank, by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,

in the manner pou in subparagraphs (E), (F), (G), and (1) of

section 8(i2) o

the Federal Deposit Insurance Act for penalties

imposed (under such section) and any such assessment shall be
subject to the provisions of such section.

“(vi) HeEartnG.—The bank or other person against whom any
penalty is assessed under this subparagraph shall be afforded
an agency hearing if such bank or person submits a request for
such hearing within 20 days after the issuance of the notice of
assessment. Section 8(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
shall apply to any proceeding under this subparagraph.

“(vii) DissURSEMENT.—All penalties collected under authority
of this subsection shall be deposited into the Treasury.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 475

“(viii) VIOLATE DEFINED.—For purposes of this paragraph, the
term ‘violate’ includes any action (alone or with another or
others) for or toward causing, bringing about, participating in,
counseling, or aiding or abetting a violation.

“(ix) REGULATIONS.—The Comptroller of the Currency, the
Board, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall
prescribe regulations establishing such procedures as may be
n to carry out this subparagraph. ”’.

(j) BANK Honnees ComPpantgs.—Section 8 of the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1847) is amended—

(1) in subsection (a), by striking out the first 2 sentences and
inserting in lieu thereof the following:

“(a) CRIMINAL PENALTY.—

(1) Whoever knowingly violates any provision of this Act or,
being a company, violates any regulation or order issued by the
Board under this Act, shall be imprisoned not more than 1 year,
fined not more than $100,000 per day for each day during which
the violation continues, or both.

(2) Whoever, with the intent to deceive, defraud, or profit
significantly, knowingly violates any provision of this Act shall
be imprisoned not more than 5 years, fined not more than
$1,000,000 per day for each day during which the violation
continues, or both.”; and

(2) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:

“(b) Crvi. Monty PENALTY.—

“(1) Penatry.—Any company which violates, and =~ individ-
ual who participates in a violation of, any provision of this Act,
or any regulation or order issued pursuant thereto, shall forfeit
and pay a civil penalty of not more than $25,000 for each day
oe Fig such be seem era p .

"s ESSMENT; ETC.—Any penalty imposed under paragrap
(1) may be assessed and collected by the Board in the manner
provided in subparagraphs (E), (F), (G), and (1D of section 8(i)(2) of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act for penalties imposed (under
such section) and any such assessment shall be subject to the
provisions of such section.

“(83) HEARING.—The company or other person inst whom
any penalty is assessed under this subsection s be afforded
an agency hearing if such association or person submits a
request for such hearing within 20 days after the issuance of the
notice of assessment. Section 8(h) of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act shall apply to any proceeding under this subsection.

“(4) DISBURSEMENT.—AII penalties collected under authority
of this subsection shall be deposited into the Treasury.

“(5) VIOLATE DEFINED.—F or purposes of this section, the term
Meaged i any ee ocd or with another or a?

or or toward causing, bringi ut, participating in, counsel-

ing, or aiding or abetting a vickisee.

ukabiidiing var cevosdiiven a4 aay be Crommney te Caley om
ishing such pr ures as may be necessary to carry out

this subsection.”’.

(k) Savincs AND Loan Ho.tpinc Compantes.—Section 10(i) of the
Home Owners Loan Act of 1933 (as amended by section 301 of this
Act) is amended—

(1) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting in lieu
thereof the following:

“(1) CRIMINAL PENALTY.—
103 STAT. 476

12 USC 93 note.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(A) Whoever knowingly violates any provision of this section
or being a company, violates any tion or order issued by
the Director under this section, s be imprisoned not more
than 1 year, fined not more than $100,000 pee day for each day
during which the violation continues, or both.

“(B) Whoever, with the intent to deceive, defraud, or profit
peg nd knowingly violates any provision of this section
shall be fined not more than $1, per day for each day
during which the violation continues, imprisoned not more than
5 years, or both.”;

(2) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (2)
and (3), respectively; an

(3) by amending paragraph (3) (as so redesignated by para-
graph (2) of this su ion) to read as follows:

“(3) CrviL MONEY PENALTY.—

“(A) Penatty.—Any company which violates, and any
person who participates in a violation of, any provision of
this section, or any regulation or order issued pursuant

thereto, shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more
than $25, 000 for each day during which such violation
continues.

) ASSESSMENT; ETC.—Any penal Pips

subparagraph (A) may be assessed an ceed the
Director in the manner provided in el teat teat 6
(G), and (D of section 8(iX2) of the Fede
Act for penalties imposed (under such section) Dend any ich
assessment shall be subject to the provisions of such section.
“(C) Hearinc.—The company or other person against
whom any penalty is assessed under this paragraph shall be
afforded an Sarg hearing if such company or person
submits a or such hearing within 20 days after the
issuance of the notice of assessment. Section *B(h) of the
Federal sy mp Insurance Act shall apply to any proceed-
ing under paragraph.
(D) DispursEMENT.—AIll nalties collected under
aay of this paragraph chall be deposited into the

arm) VGOLATE DEFINED.—For purposes of this section, the
term ‘violate’ includes any action (alone or with another or
others) visto or toward ing or abetting av about, participating

in, counseling, or ai Ss taeare a violation.
“(F) REGULATIONS.— r shall prescribe regula-
tions establishing such patna as may be necessary to
carry out this paragraph.”.

(1) Sreicnes Date.—The amendments made by this section shall

apply with respect to conduct engaged in by any person after the
date of the enactment of this Act, except that the increased maxi-
mum civil penalties of $5,000 and $25, 000 per violation or per da
peo apply to such conduct engaged in before such date if suc
conduct—

(1) is not already subject to a notice cnieng an administra-
tive proceeding) issued by the appepeiate ederal banking
agency (as defined in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insur-
— Act) or the National Credit Union Administration Board;
an

(2) occurred after the completion of the last report of exam-
ination of the institution involved by the appropriate Federal
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 477

banking agency (as so defined) occurring before the date of the
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 908. CLARIFICATION OF CRIMINAL PENALTY PROVISIONS FOR VIO-
LATION OF CERTAIN ORDERS.

(a) Depostrory InstrruTIONS INSURED BY THE FDIC.—Section 8(j) of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(j)) is amended to
read as follows:

“(j) CrmminaL Penatty.—Whoever, being subject to an order in
effect under subsection (e) or (g), without the prior written approval
of the appropriate Federal financial institutions regulatory agency,
knowingly participates, directly or indirectly, in any manner
(including by engaging in an activity specifically prohibited in such
an order or in subsection (eX6)) in the conduct of the affairs of—

“(1) any insured depository institution;

“(2) any institution treated as an insured bank under subsec-
po o— or (b\4), or as a savings association under subsection

“(3) any insured credit union (as defined in section 101(7) of
the Federal Credit Union Act);
cae any institution chartered under the Farm Credit Act of

; or
“(5) the Resolution Trust Corporation,
shall be fined not more than $1,000,000, imprisoned for not more
than 5 years, or both.”.

(b) Creprr Unions InsurRED By THE NCUA.—Section 206(1) of the
ae Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786()) is amended to read as

ollows:

“(1) CRIMINAL PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF CERTAIN OrnDERS.—Who-
ever—

“(1) under this Act, is suspended or removed from, or prohib-
ited from participating in the affairs of any credit union de-
scribed in section 206(g\5); and

“(2) knowingly participates, directly or indirectly, in any
manner (including by engaging in an activity specifically
prohibited in such an order or in subsection (gX5)) in the con-
duct of the affairs of such a credit union;

shall be fined not more than $1,000,000, imprisoned for not more
than 5 years, or bo

SEC. 909. SUPERVISORY RECORDS.

Section 11 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821) is
amended by inserting after subsection (m) (as added by section 214 of
this Act) the following new subsection:

“(o) SUPERVISORY rps.—In addition to the requirements of
section 7(aX2) to provide to the Corporation copies of reports of
examination and reports of condition, whenever the Corporation has
been appointed as receiver for an insured depository institution, the
appropriate Federal banking agency shall make available all super-
visory records to the receiver which may be used by the receiver in
any manner the receiver determines to be appropriate.”’.

SEC, 910. INCREASED PENALTY FOR PARTICIPATION BY CONVICTED
INDIVIDUALS.

(a) Banks INSURED BY THE FDIC.—Section 19 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1829) is amended to read as follows:
103 STAT. 478 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“SEC. 19. PENALTY FOR UNAUTHORIZED PARTICIPATION BY CONVICTED
INDIVIDUAL.

“(a) Proniprtion.—Except with the prior written consent of the
Corporation—

“(1) any person who has been convicted of any criminal
offense involving dishonesty or a breach of trust may not
participate, directly or indirectly, in any manner in the conduct
of the affairs of an insured depository institution; and

“(2) an insured depository institution may not permit such
participation.

“(b) PenaLtty.— Whoever knowingly violates subsection (a) shall be
fined not more than $1,000,000 for each day such prohibition is
violated or imprisoned for not more than 5 years, or both.”.

(b) Creprr Unions INsuRED BY THE NCUA.—Section 205(d) of the
etn Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1785(d)) is amended to read as

ollows:

“(d) PENALTY FOR PROHIBITED PARTICIPATION.—

“(1) Pronisition.—Except with the prior written consent of
the Board—

“(A) any person who has been convicted of any criminal
offense involving dishonesty or a breach of trust may not
participate, directly or indi y, in any manner in the
conduct of the affairs of an insured credit union; and

“(B) an insured credit union may not permit such partici-

tion.

“(3). PENALTy.—Whoever knowingly violates paragraph (1)
shall be fined not more than ‘$1,000,000 for each day such
ee is violated or imprisoned for not more than 5 years,
or both.”’.

SEC. 911. AMENDMENTS TO VARIOUS PROVISIONS OF LAW RELATING TO
REPORTS.

(a) BANK Protection Act.—Section 3(b) of the Bank Protection
Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1882) is amended by striking out “and shall
require the submission of periodic reports with respect to the
installation, maintenance, and operation of security devices and
procedures”.

(b) AMENDMENTS RELATING TO NATIONAL BANKS.—

(1) Section 5211 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 161) is
amended—

(A) in the 5th sentence of subsection (a), by striking out
“within ten days after the receipt of a request therefor from
him” and inserting in lieu thereof “within the period of
time specified by the Comptroller”; and

(B) in subsection (c), by striking out the last sentence.

(2) Section 5213 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 164) is
amended to read as follows:

“SEC. 5213. PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO MAKE REPORTS.

“(a) First Trer.—Any association which—

*(1) maintains procedures reasonably adapted to avoid any
inadvertent error and, unintentionally and as a result of such
an error—

“(A) fails to make, obtain, transmit, or publish any report
or information required by the Comptroller of the Currency
under section 5211 of this chapter, within the period of time
specified by the Comptroller; or
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 479

“(B) submits or publishes any false or misleading report
or information; or

“(2) inadvertently transmits or publishes any report which is
minimally late,

shall be subject to a penalty of not more than $2,000 for each day
during which such failure continues or such false or misleading
information is not corrected. The association shall have the burden
of proving that an error was inadvertent and that a report was
inadvertently transmitted or published late.

“(b) Seconp Trer.—Any association which—

“(1) fails to make, obtain, transmit, or publish any report or
information required by the Comptroller of the Currency under
section 5211 of this chapter, within the period of time specified
by the Comptroller; or

“(2) submits or publishes any false or misleading report or
information,

in a manner not described in subsection (a) shall be subject to a
ae seeasd of not more than $20,000 for each day during which such
ailure continues or such false or misleading information is not

corrected.
“(c) THirp Trer.—Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), if any

association knowingly or with reckless dis for the accuracy of
en information or report described in su ion (b) submits or
publishes any false or misleadi report or information, the

Comptroller may assess a | penay not more than $1,000,000 or 1

rcent of total assets of the association, whichever is less, per day
or each day during which such failure continues or such false or
misleading information is not corrected.

“(d) ASSESSMENT; ETC.—Any ty im under subsection (a),
(b), or (c) shall be assessed and collected by the Comptroller of the
Currency in the manner provided in subparagraphs (E), (F), (G), and
(I) of section 8(iX2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (for pen-
alties imposed under such section) and any such assessment (includ-
ing the determination of the amount of the penalty) shall be subject
to the provisions of such section.

“(e) Hearinc.—Any association against which any penalty is
assessed under this slaeaoticn shall be afforded an sewer bemrins if
such association submits a request for such hearing within 20 da
after the issuance of the notice of assessment. Section 8(h) of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act shall apply to any proceeding under
this section.”.

(c) AMENDMENT RELATING TO State NONMEMBER INSURED
Banxs.—Section 7(a\(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
U.S.C. 1817(aX1)) is amended pd striking out the last sentence and
inserting in lieu thereof the following new sentences: “Any such
bank which (A) maintains procedures reasonably adapted to avoid
any inadvertent error and, unintentionally and as a result of such
an error, fails to make or publish any report required under this
paragraph, within the period of time specified by the Corporation, or
submits or publishes any false or misleading report or information,
or (B) inadvertently transmits or publishes any report which is
minimally late, shail be subject to a ty of not more than $2,000
for each day during which such failure continues or such false or
misleading information is not corrected. Such bank shall have the
burden of proving that an error was inadvertent and that a report
was inadvertently transmitted or published late. Any such bank
which fails to make or publish any report detuiced under this
103 STAT. 480 PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989

paragraph, within the period of time ified by the Corporation, or
submits or publishes any false or misleading report or information,
in a manner not descri in the 2nd preceding sentence shall be
subject to a penalty of not more than $20,000 for each day during
which such failure continues or such false or misleading information
is not corrected. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if any
such bank knowingly or with reckless disregard for the accuracy of
my information or report described in such sentence submits or
publishes any false or misleading report or information, the Cor-
poration may assess a penalty of not more than $1,000,000 or 1
percent of total assets of such bank, whichever is less, per day for
each day during which such failure continues or such false or
misleading information is not corrected. Any penalty imposed under
any of the 4 preceding sentences shall be assessed and collected by
the Corporation in the manner provided in subparagraphs (E), (F),
(G), and (I) of section &8(i2) (for penalties imposed under such
section) and any such assessment (including the determination of
the amount of the penalty) shall be subject to the provisions of such
section. Any such bank against which any penalty is assessed under
this subsection shall be afforded an agen hearing if such bank
submits a request for such hearing within 20 days after the issuance
of the notice of assessment. Section 8(h) shall apply to any proceed-
ing under this paragraph.”’.

(d) AMENDMENT TING TO State Memser Banks.—The 6th
undesignated aghast of section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12
U.S.C. 324) is amended by striking out the penultimate sentence and
inserting in lieu thereof the following new sentences: “Any bank
which (A) maintains procedures reasonably adapted to avoid any
inadvertent error and, unintentionally and as a result of such an
error, fails to make or publish any report uired under this
paragraph, within the period of time specified by the Board, or
submits or publishes any false or misleading report or information,
or (B) ss transmits or publishes any report which is
minimally late, shall be subject to a penalty of not more than $2,000
for each day during which such failure continues or such false or
misleading information is not corrected. The bank shall have the
burden of proving that an error was inadvertent and that a report
was inadvertently transmitted or published late. Any bank which
fails to make or publish such reports within the period of time
specified by the Board, or submits or publishes any false or mislead-
ing report or information, in a manner not described in the 2nd

receding sentence shall be subject to a penalty of not more than
$20,000 or each day during which such failure continues or such
false or misleading information is not corrected. Notwithstanding
the preceding sentence, if any bank knowingly or with reckless
disregard for the accuracy of any information or pet described in
such sentence submits or publishes any false or misleading report or
information, the Board may assess a penalty of not more than
$1,000,000 or 1 percent of total assets of such bank, whichever is less,
per day for each day during which such failure continues or such
alse or misleading information is not corrected. Any penalty im-
posed under any of the 4 preceding sentences shall be assessed and
collected by the Board in the manner ele in subparagraphs (E),
(F), (G), and (1) of section 842) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
(for penalties imposed under such section) and any such assessment
(including the determination of the amount of the penalty) shall be
subject to the provisions of such section. Any erie against which
PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989

any penalty is amgeaed under this subsection shall be afforded an
agency hearing if such bank submits a request for such hearing
within 20 days after the issuance of the notice of assessment. Section
8(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act shall apply to any proceed-
ing under this paragraph.”’.

(e) AMENDMENT RELATING TO BANK Hotpinc ComPANIEs. —Section
8 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1847) is
amended by adding after the subsection added by section 905(i) of
this Act the follo new subsection:

“(d) PENALTY FOR F'arLurE To MAKE Reports.—

“(1) First TreER.—Any company which—

“(A) maintains procedures reasonably adapted to avoid
any inadvertent error and, unintentionally and as a result
of such an error—

“(i) fails to make, submit, or publish such reports or
information as may be uired under this Act or
under regulations prescribed by the Board pursuant to
this Act, within the period of time specified by the

Board; or
“(ii) submits or publishes any false or misleading
report or information; or
are across o eee or publishes any report
w
shall be subject to a city of not more than $2,000 for each
day during which such failure continues or such false or mis-
leading information is not corrected. The company shall have
the burden of proving that an error was inadvertent and that a
report was inadvertently transmitted or published late.
‘(2) SeconD TIER.—Any company whi
“(A) fails to sao mit, or publish such reports or
information as ma uired under this Act or under
regulations p aor e Board pursuant to this Act,
within the period of time specified by the Board; or
“(B) submits or publishes any false or misleading report
or information,
in a manner not described in Uae ae (1) shall be subject to a
penalty of not more than $ for each day during which
such failure continues or such false or misleading information is
m3) Tein Notwithstanding h (2), if
"4 TIER.—Notwi paragrap , if any com-
pany knowingly or with reckless disregard for the accuracy of
po information or report described in paragraph (2) submits or
lishes any false or misleading report or information, the
Board may, in its discretion, assess a penalty of not more than
$1,000,000 or 1 percent of total assets of such company, which-
ever is less, per day for each day d which such failure
continues or such false or misleading information is not cor-
(4) ASSESSMENT; ETC .—Any penalty seapovert under paragra parmsgreph
(1), (2), or (8) shall sa assessed and collected by the Board in
manner provided in subsection (b) (for seeiaen imposed under
such subsection) and any such assessment (inclu the deter-
mination of the amount of the penalty) shall be subject to the
provisions of such subsection.
“(5) HeaRInc.—Any company which any penalty is
assessed under this subsection s be afforded an agency
hearing if such company submits a request for such hearing

103 STAT. 481
103 STAT. 482

12 USC 161 note.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

within 20 days after the issuance of the notice of assessment.
Section 8(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act shall apply to

any ehariss: Boyer this subsection.”.

(f) AMENDMENT TING TO CreEpIT Unions.—Section 202(aX3) of
the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1782(a\(3)) is amended by
striking out the 2nd sentence and inserting in lieu thereof the
following new sentences: “ J insured credit union which main-
tains procedures reasonably adapted to avoid any inadvertent error
and, unintentionally and as a result of such an error, fails to submit
or publish any report required under this subsection or section 106,
within the period of time ified by the Board, or submits or
publishes any false or misleading report or information, or inadvert-
ion transmits or publishes any report which is minimally late,
shall be subject to a penalty of not more than $2,000 for each day
during which such failure continues or such false or misleading
information is not corrected. The insured credit union shall have the
burden of proving that an error was inadvertent and that a report
was inadvertently transmitted or published late. Any insured credit
union which fails to submit or publish any report required under
this subsection or section 106, within the period of time specified by
the Board, or submits or publishes any f. or misleading report or
information, in a manner not described in the 2nd peoceding sen-
tence shall be subject to a renalty of not more than $20,000 for each
day during which such failure continues or such false or misleading
information is not corrected. Notwithstanding the preceding sen-
tence, if any insured credit union knowingly or with reckless dis-
regard for the accuracy of any information or report described in
such sentence submits or publishes any false or misleading report or
information, the Board may assess a penalty of not more than
$1,000,000 or 1 percent of total assets of such credit union, which-
ever is less, per day for each day during which such failure contin-
ues A giv Se ; ak preci not ot elgg ged
penalty im under any of the 4 p ing sentences s
assessed and collected by the Board in the manner provided in
section 206(k\(2) (for pen ties imposed under such section) and any
such assessment (including the determination of the amount of the
penalty) shall be subject to the ore: of such section. Any
insured credit union against which any penalty is assessed under
this subsection shall be afforded an agency hearing if such insured
credit union submits a request for such hearing within 20 days after
the issuance of the notice of assessment. Section 206(j) shall apply to
any proceeding under this subsection.”’.

(i) ErrectivE Date.—The amendments made by this section shall
apply with respect to reports filed or required to be filed after the
date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 912. AUTHORITY OF THE FDIC TO TAKE ENFORCEMENT ACTION
AGAINST SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.

Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818) is
amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:

“(t) AUTHORITY OF Boarp To TAKE ENFORCEMENT ACTION AGAINST
Savincs ASSociaTIONS.—

“(1) AUTHORITY TO RECOMMEND THAT DIRECTOR OF OFFICE OF
THRIFT SUPERVISION TAKE ENFORCEMENT ACTION.—The Corpora-
tion, based on an examination of a savings association by the
Corporation or by the Director of the Office of Thrift Super-
vision or on other information, may recommend that the Direc-
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 483

tor take any enforcement action authorized under section 7(j),
this section, or section 18(j) with respect to any savings associa-
tion.

“(2) AUTHORITY OF BOARD TO ORDER CORPORATION TO TAKE
ENFORCEMENT ACTION IF DIRECTOR OF OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPER-
VISION FAILS TO FOLLOW RECOMMENDATION.—If the Director fails
to take the recommended action or to provide an acceptable
plan for addressing the concerns of the ips ogy as set forth
in its recommendation before the close of the 60-day period
beginning on the date of the receipt of the formal recommenda-
tion from the Corporation, the Board of Directors may order the
Corporation to take such action if the Board determines that—

“(A) the association is in an unsafe or unsound condition;
or

“(B) failure to take the recommended action will result in
continuance of unsafe or unsound practices in conducting
the business of the savings association.

“(3) EFFECT OF EXIGENT CIRCUMSTANCES.—

“(A) AuTHority To act.—Notwithstanding phs (1)
and (2), the Board of Directors may order the Corporation to
exercise its authority, without = to the time period set
forth, in exigent circumstances r notifying the Director.

“(B) AGREEMENT ON EXIGENT CIRCUMSTANCES.—The Cor-
poration shall, by agreement with the Director, set forth
those exigent circumstances in which the Corporation may
act without regard to the time period set forth above.

“(4) REQUESTS FOR FORMAL ACTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.—

“(A) SUBMISSION OF REQUESTS.—The regional offices of the
Office of Thrift Supervision shall concurrently submit all
requests for formal investigations or enforcement actions to
both the Director and the Corporation.

“(B) DIRECTOR REQUIRED TO REPORT ON REQUESTS.—The
Director shall report semiannually to the Corporation the
status or disposition of all such requests, including the
reasons for the Director’s decision to either approve or deny
all such requests.

“(5) NONDELEGATION.—Any decisions by the Board of Direc-
= to order actions described in this subsection shall not be

elegated.”.

SEC. 913. PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS REQUIRED.

(a) Orpers IssuED By APPROPRIATE FEDERAL BANKING AGENCIES.—
Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act is amended y! adding
after the subsection added by section 912 of this Act the following
new subsection:

“(u) ‘ate - DIscLOSURE os FINAL — “iil

; GENERAL.—The appropriate e ing agency
shall publish and make available to the public—

“(A) any final order issued with respect to any adminis-
trative enforcement proceeding initiated by such agency
under this section or any other provision of law; and

“(B) any modification to or termination of any final order
described in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph. —

“(2) DELAY OF PUBLICATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL CIR-
CUMSTANCES.—If the appropriate Federal banking agency
makes a determination in writing that the publication of any
final order pursuant to paragraph (1) would seriously threaten
103 STAT. 484 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

12 USC 1831i.

the safety or soundness of an insured depository institution,
such agency = delay the publication of such order for a
reasonable time.’

(b) Orvers Issuzp By NCUA.—Section 206 of the Federal Credit
Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786) is amended by inserting after the subsec-
tion added by section 901(b) of this Act the following new subsection:

“(s) PusLic DiscLosuRE OF FINAL OrDERS.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall publish and make avail-
able to the public—

“(A) any final order issued with respect to any adminis-
trative enforcement proceeding initiated by such agency
under this section or any other provision of law; and

“(B) any modification to or termination of any final order
described in subparagraph (A).

“(2) DELAY OF PUBLICATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL CIR-
CUMSTANCES.—If the Board makes a determination in writing
that the publication of any final order pursuant to paragraph (1)
would seriously threaten the safety or soundness of an insured
credit union or other federally regulated depository institution,
oe Board er delay the publication of such order for a reason-
able time.”

SEC. 914. AGENCY DISAPPROVAL OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF CERTAIN DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS.

(a) Deposrrory InstiruTION INSURED By THE FDIC.—The Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.) is amended by adding
after the section added by section 226 of this Act the following new
section:

“SEC, 32. AGENCY DISAPPROVAL OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF INSURED DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS OR
DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION HOLDING COMPANIES.

“(a) Prior Notice RequireD.—An insured depository institution
or depository institution holding company s notify the appro-
priate Federal banking agency of the proposed addition of any
individual to the board of directors or the employment of any
individual as a senior executive officer of such institution or holding
company at least 30 days before such addition or employment
becomes effective, if the insured depository institution or depository
institution holding company—

“(1) has been chartered less than 2 years in the case of an
insured depository institution;

“(2) has undergone a change in control within the preceding 2
years; or

“(8) is not in compliance with the minimum capital require-
ment applicable to such institution or is otherwise in a troubled
condition, as determined by such agency on the basis of such
institution’s or holding company’s most recent report of condi-
tion or report of examination or inspection.

“(b) DisAPPROVAL BY AGENCY.—An insured depository institution
or depository institution holding company may not add any individ-

ual to the board of directors or employ any individual as a senior

executive officer if the appropriate Federal king agency issues a
notice of disapproval of such addition or employment before the end
of the 30-day period beginning on the date the agency receives notice
of the Es roposed action pursuant to subsection (a).

“(c) EXCEPTION IN EXTRAORDINARY CIRCUMSTANCES.—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 485

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Each appropriate Federal banking agency
may prescribe by regulation conditions under which the prior
notice requirement of subsection (a) may be waived in the event
of extraordinary circumstances.

“(2) No EFFECT ON DISAPPROVAL AUTHORITY OF AGENCY.—Such
waivers shall not affect the authority of each agency to issue
notices of disapproval of such additions or employment of such
individuals within 30 days after each such waiver.

“(d) ApprrioNAL INFORMATION.—Any notice submitted to an
appropriate Federal banking agency with respect to an individual by
any insured depository institution or depository institution holding
company pursuant to subsection (a) shall include—

“(1) the information described in section 7(jX6A) about the
individual; and

“(2) such other information as the agency may prescribe by

ation.

“(e) STANDARD FOR DisApPROVAL.—The appropriate Federal bank-
i mens shall issue a notice of disapproval with respect to a notice
submi pursuant to subsection (a) if the competence, experience,
character, or integrity of the individual with respect to whom such
notice is submitted indicates that it would not be in the best
interests of the depositors of the depository institution or in the best
interests of the public to permit the individual to be employed by, or
associated with, the depository institution or depository institution

holding company.

Ses REGULATIONS.—Each appropriate Federal banking
agency shall prescribe by regulation a definition for the terms
‘troubled condition’ and ‘senior executive officer’ for purposes of
subsection (a).”.

(b) Creprt Unions INsuRED BY THE NCUA.—Title II of the Federal
Credit Union Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1781 et seq.) is amended by
adding at the end thereof the following new section:

“SEC. 212. BOARD DISAPPROVAL OF DIRECTORS, COMMITTEE MEMBERS, 12 USC 1790a.
AND SENIOR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF INSURED CREDIT
UNIONS.

“(a) Prior Notice Requirep.—An insured credit union shall

a the Board of the proposed addition of any individual to the

of directors or committee or the employment of any individual

as a senior executive officer of such credit union at least 30 days

before such addition or employment becomes effective, if the insured
credit union—

“(1) has been chartered less than 2 years; or

“(2) is in troubled condition, as determined on the basis of
such credit union’s most recent report of condition or report of
examination.

“(b) DISAPPROVAL BY THE Boarp.—An insured credit union may
not add any individual to the board of directors or employ any
individual as a senior executive officer if the Board issues a notice of
disapproval of such addition or employment before the end of the 30-
day period beginning on the date the agency receives notice of the
proposed action pursuant to subsection (a).

“(c) EXCEPTION IN EXTRAORDINARY CIRCUMSTANCES.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Board may prescribe by lation
conditions under which the prior notice requirement of subsec-
tion (a) may be waived in the event of extraordinary cir-
cumstances.
103 STAT. 486 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

12 USC 1818
note.

“(2) No EFFECT ON DISAPPROVAL AUTHORITY OF BOARD.—Such
waivers shall not affect the authority of the Board to issue
notices of disapproval of such additions or employment of such
individuals within 30 days after each such waiver.

“(d) ApprrioNAL INFORMATION.—Any notice submitted to the
Board by any insured credit union pursuant to subsection (a) shall
include—

“(1) the information described in section 7(jX6)A) of the Fed-
eral Deposit Insurance Act about the individual; and

“(2) such other information as the Board may prescribe by

ation.

“(e) STANDARD FOR DisAPPROVAL.—The Board shall issue a notice
of disapproval with respect to a notice submitted pursuant to subsec-
tion (a) if the competence, experience, character, or integrity of the
individual with respect to whom such notice is submitted indicates
that it would not be in the best interests of the depositors of the
insured credit union or in the best interests of the public to permit
the individual to be employed by, or associated with, such insured
credit union.

“(f) DeriniT1ioN REGULATIONS.—The Board shall prescribe by regu-
lation a definition for the terms ‘troubled condition’ and ‘senior
executive officer’ for purposes of subsection (a).”.

SEC. 915. CLARIFICATION OF NCUA’S AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT COMPLI-
ANCE INVESTIGATIONS.

(a) EXAMINATIONS.—Section 204(b) of the Federal Credit Union
Act (12 U.S.C. 1784(b)) is amended—

(1) by inserting after “insured credit unions,” the following:
“or with other types of investigations to determine compliance
with applicable law and regulations,”; and

(2) by inserting after ‘“subpena duces tecum”’ the following:
oon Mi exercise such others powers as are set forth in section

p)”’.

(b) ENFORCEMENT.—Section 206(p) of the Federal Credit Union Act
(12 U.S.C. 1786(p)) is amended in the 1st sentence—

(1) by inserting after “any proveoding under this section” the
following: “or in connection with any claim for insured deposits
or any examination or investigation under section 204(b)”;

(2) by inserting after “the Board” the Ist place such term
appears the following: “, in conducting the proceeding, examina-
tion, or investigation or considering the claim for insured de-
posits,”; and

(3) by inserting “, claims, examinations, or investigations”
before the period.

(c) PAYMENT oF CLarms.—Section 207(c)(1) of the Federal Credit
Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1787(cX1)) is amended in the last sentence by
inserting after “before paying the insured accounts,” the following:
“may investigate said claims under section 206(p),”.

SEC. 916. IMPROVED ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS AND PROCEDURES.

Before the close of the 24-month period beginning on the date of
the enactment of this Act, the rooms Federal banking agencies
(as defined in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) and
the National Credit Union Administration Board shall jointly—

(1) establish their pin poo of administrative law judges, and
(2) develop a set of uniform rules and procedures for adminis-
trative hearings, including provisions for summary judgment
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 487

rulings where there are no disputes as to material facts of the
case.

SEC. 917. TASK FORCE STUDY OF DELEGATION OF ENFORCEMENT so ee 1818
ACTIONS.

(a) CREATION OF Task Force.—The appropriate Federal banking
agencies (as defined in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act) and the National Credit Union Administration Board shall
create a joint task force to study the desirability and feasibility of
delegating investigation and enforcement authority to their regional
or district offices or a

(b) Composition oF Task Force.—The composition of the task
force shall be reasonably balanced between officials from head-
quarters and officials from the regions, districts, or district banks.

(c) Report.—Not later than September 30, 1990, the task force
shall re obs gw to the are the findings and recommendations of
the Task Force, ther with the responses of the Comptroller of
the Currency, the r of the Office of Thrift Supervision, the
Chairperson of the MFoderal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the
Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
and the Chairman of the National Credit Union Administration.

SEC. 918. ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS. 12 USC 1833.

(a) IN GENERAL.—Each agency described in subsection (b) shall
submit an annual report to the Congress which shall contain the
following information with respect to the 12-month period for which
such report is made:

(1) The number of formal and informal supervisory, adminis-
trative, and civil enforcement actions initiated by such agency
during such 12-month period, and the number of such actions
completed by such agency during such 12-month period, includ-
ing actions initiated or taken with respect to memoranda of
understanding, written agreements, cease and desist orders
(including temporary orders), suspension orders, removal or
prohibition orders, and civil money penalty assessments.

(2) The number of individuals and institutions against whom
civil money penalties were assessed «a such agency during such
12-month period, the amount of each such penalty, the total
amount of all such penalties, and data on uncollected penalties
for such | pac and prior years.

(3) A description of air other enforcement efforts and initia-
tives relating to unsafe and unsound practices, criminal mis-
a and insider abuse which were undertaken by such

aoe An uring such 12-month period.

(4) The number of criminal referrals made to the Department
of Justice.

(5) With respect to the criminal referrals received by the
Department of Justice and with res to investigations of
similar matters initiated without such a referral, the number
and status of grand ey investigations and investigations being
conducted by the eral Bureau of Investigation, and the
number and disposition of prosecutions and civil actions com-
menced by the Attorney General.

(6) Recommendations concerning the need for additional legis-
lation or financial resources.

(b) AGENcres ReQquIRED TO SuBMitT Reports.—The agencies re-
ferred to in subsection (a) are as follows:
103 STAT. 488

Regulations.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(1) The Comptroller of the Currency.

(2) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(3) The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

(4) The Federal Housing Finance Board.

(5) The Office of Thrift Supervision.

(6) The National Credit Union Administration.

(7) The Attorney General of the United States.

SEC. 919. CREDIT UNION AUDIT REQUIREMENTS.

Section 202(a) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1782(a))
is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new para-
graph:

“(6) AUDIT REQUIREMENT.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Before the end of the 120-day period
beginning on the date of the enactment of the Financial
Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of
1989 and notwithstanding any other provision of Federal or
State law, the Board shall prescribe, by regulation, audit
standards which require an outside, independent audit of
any insured credit union by a certified public accountant
for any fiscal year (of such credit union)—

“(i) for which such credit union has not conducted an
annual supervisory committee audit;

“(ii) for which such credit union has not received a
complete and satisfactory supervisory committee audit;

or

“(iii) during which such credit union has experienced

persistent and serious recordkeeping deficiencies, as
determined by the Board.

“(B) UNSAFE OR UNSOUND PRACTICE.—The Board may
treat the failure of any insured credit union to obtain an
outside, independent audit for any fiscal year for which
such audit is required under subparagraph (A) as an unsafe
or unsound practice within the meaning of section 206(b).”’.

SEC, 920. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS RELATING TO ADMINISTRATIVE AND
JUDICIAL REVIEW.

(a) FDIA.—Section 8(h)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
U.S.C. 1818(h\(2)) is amended by striking “Any party” and all that
follows through “therein,” and inserting in lieu thereof “Any party
to any proceeding under ore Be (1)”.

(b) FCUA. Sachin 206(j(2) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12
U.S.C. 1786(j)(2)) is amended by striking “Any party” and all that
follows through “therein,” and inserting in lieu thereof “Any party
to any proceeding under paragraph (1)”’.

(c) MiscELLANEOUS CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 8(k) of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(k)) is amended by
striking out all that follows “(k)’.

Subtitle B—Termination of Deposit Insurance

SEC. 926. REVISION OF PROCEDURES FOR TERMINATION OF FDIC
DEPOSIT INSURANCE.

Section 8(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1818(a)) is amended—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 489

(1) by striking out “(a) Any insured bank” and all that follows
through the period at the end of the 4th sentence and inserting
in lieu thereof the following:

“(a) TERMINATION OF INSURANCE.—
“(1) VOLUNTARY TERMINATION.—Any insured depository
institution which is not—
“(A) a national member bank;
“(B) a State member bank;
*“(C) a Federal branch;
“(D) a Federal savings association; or
“(E) an insured branch which is required to be insured
under subsection (a) or (b) of section 6 of the International
Banking Act of 1978,
may terminate such depository institution’s status as an in-
sured depository institution if such insured institution provides
written notice to the Corporation of the institution’s intent to
terminate such status not less than 90 days before the effective
date of such termination.

“(2) INVOLUNTARY TERMINATION.—

“(A) NoricE TO PRIMARY REGULATOR.—If the Board of
Directors determines that—

“(j) an insured depository institution or the directors
or trustees of an insured depository institution have
engaged or are eopess & in unsafe or unsound practices
in conducting th of the depository institution;

“(ii) an insured depository institution is in an unsafe
or unsound condition to continue operations as an in-
sured institution; or

“(iii) an insured depository institution or the direc-
tors or trustees of the insured institution have violated
any applicable law, tion, order, condition im-
posed in writing by the Corporation in connection with
the approval of any application or other request by the

depository institution, or written agreement
entered into between the insured depository institution
and the Corporation,
the Board of Directors shall notify the appropriate Federal
banking —* with respect to such institution (if other
than the tion) or the State banking supervisor of
such institution (if the Corporation is the appropriate Fed-
eral banking agency) of the Board’s determination and the
facts and circumstances on which such determination is
based for the purpose of securing the correction of such
practice, orc ia or violation. Such notice shall be given
to the sty aed ederal banking agency not less than 30
days before the notice required by subparagraph (B), except
that this period for notice to the appropriate Federal bank-
ing agency may be reduced or eliminated with the agree-
ment of such agency.

“(B) NoricE OF INTENTION TO TERMINATE INSURANCE.—If,
after giving the notice vip baa under subparagraph (A)
with respect to an insured depository institution, the Board
of Directors determines that any unsafe or unsound prac-
tice or condition or any violation specified in such notice
requires the termination of the insured status of the in-
sured depository institution, the Board shall—
103 STAT. 490

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(i) serve written notice to the insured depository
institution of the Board’s intention to terminate the
insured status of the institution;

“(ii) provide the insured depository institution with a
statement of the charges on the basis of which the
determination to terminate such institution’s insured
status was made (or a copy of the notice under subpara-
graph (A)); and

“(iii) notify the insured depository institution of the
date (not less than 30 days after notice under this
subparagraph) and place for a hearing before the Board
of Directors (or any person designated by the Board)
with respect to the termination of the institution’s
insured status.

“(3) HEARING; TERMINATION.—If, on the basis of the evidence
presented at a hearing before the Board of Directors (or any
person designated by the Board for such purpose), in which all
issues shall be determined on the record pursuant to section 554
of title 5, United States Code, and the written findings of the
Board of Directors (or such person) with respect to such evi-
dence (which shall be conclusive), the Board of Directors finds
that any unsafe or unsound practice or condition or any viola-
tion specified in the notice to an insured depository institution
under subparagraph (B) has been established, the Board of
Directors may issue an order terminating the insured status of
such depository institution effective as of a date subsequent to
such finding.”;

(2) by striking out “Unless the” and inserting in lieu thereof
the following:

“(4) APPEARANCE; CONSENT TO TERMINATION.—Unless the”;

(3) by striking out “Any insured” and all that follows through
“status” the lst place such term appears and inserting in lieu
thereof the following:

“(5) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—Any insured depository institution
whose insured status”;

(4) by striking out “The Corporation may publish” and insert-
ing in lieu thereof the following:

(6) PUBLICATION OF NOTICE OF TERMINATION.—The Corpora-
tion may publish”;

(5) by striking out “After the termination of the insured
status” and inserting in lieu thereof the following:

“(7) TEMPORARY INSURANCE OF DEPOSITS INSURED AS OF TERMI-
NATION.—After the termination of the insured status”;

(6) in paragraph (7) (as so designated by the amendment made
by paragraph (5) of this section)—

(A) by striking out “‘of two years” the lst place such term
appears and inserting in lieu thereof “of at least 6 months
or up to 2 years, within the discretion of the Board of

Directors’;

(B) by striking out “of two years” the 2nd place such term
appears and inserting in lieu thereof “the period referred to
in the Ist sentence’’; and

(C) by striking out “of two years” the 3rd place such term

appears;
(7) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
“(8) earomany SUSPENSION OF INSURANCE.—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Board of Directors initiates a
termination proceeding under paragraph (2), and the Board
of Directors, god consultation with the sreeoyriee Fed-
eral banking rs oes that an insured ragga!
ee erage ns i association to whic
oaeipots a (B) applies) has no A tenets capital under the
pe guidelines or tions of the appropriate Federal
banking agency, the Corporation may issue a temporary
order suspending deposit insurance on all deposits received
by the institution.
“(B) SPECIAL RULE FOR CERTAIN SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS.—
“(i) ys ce a rae or IN ee CAP-
ITAL.—. etermining the e capital of a savings
a for purposes of this paragraph, the Board of
include goodwill to the extent it is
coniiaced a component of capital under section 5(t) of
the Home Owners’ Loan Act. Any savings association
which would be subject to a suspension order under

sub Ih (A) but for the operation of this subpara-
gar be considered by the Corporation to be a
pecial supervisory association’.

“(ii) SUSPENSION ORDER.—The Corporation may issue
a temporary order suspending deposit insurance on all
deposits received Board a special supervisory association

whenever the of Directors determines that—
tikeing the ms oa such association, as computed
tilizing applica cable 2 ee standards, has suf-

fered a material

“(ID that acs er (or its directors or
officers) is engaging in an unsafe or unsound prac-
tice in conducting the business of the association;

“(ID that such association is in an unsafe or
unsound condition to continue operating as an in-
sured association; or

“(IV) that such association (or its directors or
officers) has violated any applicable law, rule, regu
lation, or order, or an con ition imposed in pi
ing by a Federal agency, or any written
agreement including a capital improvement plan
entered into with any Federal banking agency, or
that the association failed to enter into a cap-
ital improvement plan which is acceptable to the
Corporation within the time period set forth in
section 5(t) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act.

Nothing 5 oe limits the t of the Cor-
poration or the of the Office of Thrift Super-
vision to enforce a contractual provision which au-
thorizes the Corporation or the Dinsaer of the Office of
Thrift Su ion, as a successor to the Federal Sav-
ings and Insurance Corporation or the hea
Home Loan Bank Board, to require a sa
tion to write down or amortize goodwill at a dae vate rate
than otherwise required under this Act or under ap-
eo accounting standards.
“(C) EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF TEMPORARY ORDER.—Any order
issued under sub ph (A) shall become effective not
earlier than 10 days fees the date of service upon the

103 STAT. 491
103 STAT. 492

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

institution and, unless set aside, limited, or suspended by a
court in proceedings authorized hereunder, such temporary
order shall remain effective and enforceable until an order
of the Board under paragraph (3) becomes final or until the
Corporation dismisses the proceedings under paragraph (3).

“(D) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—Before the close of the 10-day
period beginning on the date any temporary order has been
served upon an insured depository institution under
subparagraph (A), such institution may apply to the United
States District Court for the District of Columbia, or the
United States district court for the judicial district in which
the home office of the institution is located, for an injunc-
tion setting aside, limiting, or suspending the enforcement,
operation, or effectiveness of such order, and such court
shall have jurisdiction to issue such injunction.

“(E) CoNTINUATION OF INSURANCE FOR PRIOR DEPOSITS.—
The insured deposits of each depositor in such depository
institution on the effective date of the order issued under
this paragraph, minus all subsequent withdrawals from any
deposits of such depositor, shall continue to be insured,
subject to the administrative proceedings as provided in
this Act.

“(F) PUBLICATION OF ORDER.—The depository institution
shall give notice of such order to each of its depositors in
such manner and at such times as the Board of Directors
may find to be necessary and may order for the protection
of depositors.

“(G) NOTICE BY CORPORATION.—If the Corporation deter-
mines that the depository institution has not substantially
complied with the notice to depositors required by the
Board of Directors, the Corporation may provide such
notice in such manner as the Board of Directors may find to
be necessary and appropriate.

“(H) Lack or notice.—Notwithstanding subparagraph
(A), any deposit made after the effective date of a suspen-
sion order issued under this paragraph shall remain
insured to the extent that the depositor establishes that—

(i) such deposit consists of additions made by auto-
matic deposit the depositor was unable to prevent; or

(ii) such depositor did not have actual knowledge of
the suspension of insurance.

“(9) FINAL DECISIONS TO TERMINATE INSURANCE.—Any decision
by the Board of Directors to—

“(A) issue a temporary order terminating deposit insur-
ance; or

‘“(B) issue a final order terminating deposit insurance
(other than under subsection (p) or (q));

shall be made by the Board of Directors and may not be
delegated.

“(10) Low- TO MODERATE-INCOME HOUSING LENDER.—In making
any determination regarding the termination of insurance of a
solvent savings association, the Corporation may consider the
extent of the association’s low- to moderate-income housing
loans.”’.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 493

Subtitle C—Improving Early Detection of
Misconduct and Encouraging Informants

SEC. 931. INFORMATION REQUIRED TO BE MADE AVAILABLE TO OUTSIDE
AUDITORS.

(a) Deposrrory InstrrutTions INSURED BY THE FDIC.—Section 7(a)
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(a)) is amended
by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:

“(8) REPORT TO INDEPENDENT AUDITOR.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Each insured depository institution
which has engaged the services of an independent auditor
to audit such depository institution within the past 2 years
shall transmit to such auditor a copy of the the most recent
report of condition made by such depository institution
(pursuant to this Act or any other provision of law) and a
copy of the most recent report of examination received by
such depository institution.

“(B) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—In addition to the copies
of the reports required to be provided to an auditor under
subparagraph (A), each insured depository institution shall
provide such auditor with—

“(i) a copy of any supervisory memorandum of under-
standing with such depository institution and any writ-
ten agreement between a Federal or State banking
agency and the depository institution which is in effect
during the period coverad by the audit; and

“Gi) a report of any action initiated or taken by a
Federal banking agency during such period under
subsection (a), (b), (c), (e), (g), @, or (s) of section 8, or of
any similar action taken by a State banking agency
under State law, or any other civil money penalty
assessed under any other provision of law with respect
to—

“(I the depository institution; or
“(ID any institution-affiliated
(b) Instrrutions INSURED BY THE NCUA.—Section ‘sae of the
Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1782(a)) is amended by adding
after the paragraph added by section 922 of this Act the following
new paragraph:
“(7) REPORT TO INDEPENDENT AUDITOR.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Each insured credit union which has
engaged the services of an independent auditor to audit
such depository institution within the past 2 years shall
transmit to such auditor a copy of the most recent report of
condition made by such credit union (pursuant to this Act
or any other provision of law) and a copy of the most recent
report of examination received by such credit union.

“(B) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—In addition to the copies
of the reports required to be provided to an auditor under
subparagraph (A), each insured credit union shall provide
such auditor with—

“(i) a copy of ay supervisory memorandum of under-
standing with such credit union and any written agree-
ment between the Board or a State regulatory agency
103 STAT. 494 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

12 USC 183]j.

12 USC 1790b.

and the credit union which is in effect during the
period covered by the audit; and
“(ii) a report of any action initiated or taken by the

Board during such period under subsection (e), (f), (g),
(i), (), or (q) of section 206, or any similar action taken
by a State regulatory agency under State law, or any
other civil money penalty assessed by the Board under
this Act, with respect to—

“() the credit union; or

“(ID any institution-affiliated party.”’.

SEC. 932. DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE PROTECTION REMEDY.

(a) Employees OF Depository INSTITUTIONS INSURED BY THE
FDIC.—The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.) is
amended by adding after the section added by section 914(a) of this
Act the following new section:

“SEC. 33. DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE PROTECTION REMEDY.

“(a) Prontpition AGArINst DISCRIMINATION AGAINST WHISTLE-
BLOWERS.—No federally insured depository institution may dis-
charge or otherwise discriminate against any employee with respect
to compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment
because the employee (or any person acting pursuant to the request
of the ee provided information to any Federal banki
agency or to the Attorney General regarding a possible violation of
any law or regulation by the depository institution or any of its
officers, directors, or employees.

“(b) ENFORCEMENT.—Any employee or former employee who be-
lieves he has been discharged or dsciiming iminated against in violation
of subsection (a) may file a civil action in the appropriate United
States district court before the close of the 2-year period beginning
on the date of such discharge or discrimination. The complainant
shall also file a copy of the complaint initiating such action with the
appropriate Federal banking agency.

‘(c) Remepres.—If the district court determines that a violation of
subsection (a) has occurred, it may order the depository institution
which committed the violation—

“(1) to reinstate the te ie to his former position,

“(2) to pay compensatory ages; or

“(3) take other appropriate actions to remedy any past
discrimination.

“(d) Lrm1ratTIon.—The protections of this section shall not apply to
any employee who—

“(1) deliberately causes or participates in the alleged violation
of law or regulation; or

“(2) knowingly or recklessly provides substantially false
information to such an agency or the Attorney General.”.

(b) EmpLoyees or Crepir Unions INsuRED BY THE NCUA.—The
Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1751 et .) is amended by
inserting after the section added by section 914) of this Act the
following new section:

“SEC. 213. CREDIT UNION EMPLOYEE PROTECTION REMEDY.

“(a) Prouiprtion AGAINST DISCRIMINATION AGAINST WHISTLE-
BLOWERS.—No federally insured credit union may discharge or
otherwise discriminate against any employee with respect to com-
pensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment because
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 495

the employee (or any person acting pursuant to the request of the
employee) provided information to the Board or to the Attorney
General regarding a possible violation of any law or regulation by
the credit union or any of its officers, directors, or employees.

“(b) ENFORCEMENT.—Any rpg or former employee who be-
lieves he has been discharged or discriminated against in violation
of subsection (a) may file a civil action in the appropriate United
States district court before the close of the 2-year rah beginning
on the date of such discharge or discrimination. The complainant
shall also file a copy of the complaint initiating such action with the

“(c) Remepiks.—If the district court determines that a violation of
subsection (a) has occurred, it may order the credit union which
committed the violation—

“(1) to reinstate the employee to his former position,

“(2) to pay compensatory , or

“(3) take other appropriate actions to remedy any past
discrimination.

“(d) Limrrations.—The protections of this section shall not apply
to any employee who—

“(1) deliberately causes or participates in the alleged violation
of law or regulation, or

(2) knowingly or recklessly provides substantially false
information to such an agency or the Attorney General.”.

SEC, 933. REWARD FOR INFORMATION LEADING TO RECOVERIES OR CIVIL
PENALTIES.

(a) Deposrrory INstrruTIONS INSURED BY THE FDIC.—The Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 et aa.) is amended by adding
after the section added by section 932(a) of this Act the following
new section:

“SEC. 34. REWARD FOR INFORMATION LEADING TO RECOVERIES OR 12 USC 1831k.
CIVIL PENALTIES.

“(a) In GENERAL.—An appropriate Federal banking agency, with
the concurrence of the Attorney General, may pay a reward to a
person who provides original information which leads to—

“(1) recovery, in an amount that exceeds $50,000, of a criminal
fine, restitution, or civil penalty—

“(A) under—

“(j) the Federal Deposit Insurance Act;

“(ii) the Federal Credit Union Act;

“(iii) sections 5213, 5239(b), and 5240 of the Revised
Statutes;

“(iv) the Federal Reserve Act;
‘iene the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of

“(vi) the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956;

“(vii) the Home Owners’ Loan Act; or

“(viii) section 3663 of title 18, United States Code,
pursuant to a conviction for an offense referred to in
subparagraph (B) of this paragraph,

“(B) pursuant to a conviction for an offense under section
215, 656, 657, 1005, 1006, 1007, 1014, 1341, 1343, or 1344 of
title 18, United States Code, affecting a depository institu-
tion insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
or for a conspiracy to commit such an offense; or
103 STAT. 496 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

12 USC 1790c.

“(C) under section 951 of the Financial Institutions
Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989; or
“(2) a forfeiture under section 981 or 982 of title 18, United
States Code, that—
‘(A) arises in connection with a depository institution
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; and
“(B) exceeds $50,000.

“(b) PERCENTAGE LimITATION.—An appropriate Federal banking
agency may not pay a reward under subsection (a) of more than 25
percent of the amount of the fine, penalty, restitution, or forfeiture
or $100,000, whichever is less.

“(c) OFFICIALS AND Persons INELIGIBLE.—An appropriate Federal
banking agency may not pay a reward under subsection (a) to—

“(1) an officer or employee of the United States or of a State
or local government who provides information described in
subsection (a), obtained in the performance of official duties; or

“(2) a person who—

‘(A) deliberately causes or participates in the alleged
violation of law or regulation, or

“(B) knowingly or recklessly provides substantially false
information to such an agency or the Attorney General.

“(d) NONREVIEWABILITY.—Any agency decision under this section
is final and not reviewable by any court.”’.

(b) Creprr Unions INsuRED By THE NCUA.—Title II of the Federal
Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1790 et seq.) is amended by inserting
after the section added by section 932(b) of this Act the following
new section:

“SEC. 214. REWARD FOR INFORMATION LEADING TO RECOVERIES OR
CIVIL PENALTIES.

“The Board may pay rewards in connection with an offense
affecting an insured credit union, under the same circumstances and
subject to the same limitations that a Federal banking agency may
pay rewards under section 33 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
in connection with an offense affecting a depository institution
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.”’.

Subtitle D—Right to Financial Privacy Act
Amendments

SEC. 941. DEFINITIONS.

Section 1101 of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 (12
U.S.C. 3401), as amended by section 744(b) of this Act, is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (6) and (7) as paragraphs (7)

and (8), respectively; and

(2) in paragraph (7) (as so redesignated), by striking all that
precedes subparagraph (A) and inserting in lieu thereof the
following:

“(7) ‘supervisory agency’ means with respect to any particular
financial institution, holding company, or any subsidiary of a
financial institution or holding company, any of the following
which has statutory authority to examine the financial condi-
tion, business operations, or records or transactions of that
institution, holding company, or subsidiary—’”’; and
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 497

@) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new para-

graph:
“(6) ‘holding company’ means—

“(A) any bank holding company (as defined in section 2 of
the Bank Holding Shag vane of 1956);

“(B) any company described in section 3(f\(1) of the Bank
Holding Comune Act of 1956; and

“(C) any savings and loan holding company (as defined in
the Home Owners’ Loan Act);”.

SEC. 942. ADDITIONAL EXCEPTIONS.

Section 1113 of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 (12
U.S.C. 3413(b)) is amended—

(1) by eee: Lp quia (b) to read as follows:

“(b) This chapter s not apply to the examination by or disclo-
sure to any supervisory agency of cial records or information in
the exercise of its supervisory, regulatory, or mone functions,
including conservatorship or receivership functions, with respect to
any financial institution, holding company, subsidiary of a financial
institution or holding com , institution-affiliated party (within
the meaning of section 3(U) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act)
with respect to a financial institution, holding ony or subsidi-
ary, or other person participating in the conduct of the affairs
thereof.”’; and

(2) by adding at the end the following new subsections:

“(m) This title s not apply to the examination by or disclosure
to employees or agents of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System or any Federal Reserve Bank of financial records or
information in the exercise of the Federal Reserve System’s author-
ity to extend credit to the financial institutions or others.

“(n) This title shall not apply to the examination by or disclosure
to the Resolution Trust Corporation or its employees or agents of
financial records or information in the exercise of its
conservatorship, receivership, or liquidation functions with respect
to a financial institution.

“(9) This title shall not apply to the examination by or disclosure
to the Federal Housing Finance Board or any of the Federal home
loan banks of financial records or information in the exercise of the
Federal Housing Finance Board’s authority to extend credit (either
directly or through a Federal home loan bank) to financial institu-
tions or others.”’.

SEC. 943. PROHIBITION.

Section 1120 of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 (12
U.S.C. 3420) is ee as section 1120(a) and is amended by
adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(b\(L) No officer, director, partner, employee, or shareholder of, or
agent or attorney for, a financial institution shall, directly or in-
pra’ U notify any person named in a grand jury subpoena served
on such institution in connection with an investigation relating to a
possible—

“(A) crime against any financial institution or supervisory
agency; or
“(B) conspiracy to commit such a crime,
about the existence or contents of such subpoena, or information
pas has been furnished to the grand jury in response to such
subpoena.
103 STAT. 498

12 USC 1833a.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(2) Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and section
206(k\(2) of the Federal Credit Union Act shall apply to any violation
of this subsection.”’.

SEC. 944. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

Section 1112(e) of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 (12
U.S.C. ape i is amended—

(1) b inserting after “with respect to a depository institution”
the following: “, holding company, or amy subsidiary of a deposi-
we institution or holding company,”; an

) by striking out “Council” and inserting in lieu thereof
“Council and the Securities and Exchange Commission”.

Subtitle E—Civil Penalties For Violations
Involving Financial Institutions

SEC. 951. CIVIL PENALTIES.

(a) In GenERAL,—Whoever violates any provision of law to which
this section is made applicable by subsection (c) shall be subject to a
civil penalty in an amount assessed by the court in a civil action
under this section.

(b) Maximum AMOUNT OF PENALTY.—

(1) GENERALLY.—The amount of the civil penalty shall not
exceed $1,000,000.

(2) SPECIAL RULE FOR CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.—In the case of
a continuing violation, the amount of the civil penalty may
exceed the amount described in paragraph (1) but may not
exceed the lesser of $1,000,000 per day or ay or $a 000,000.

(3) SPECIAL RULE FOR VIOLATIONS CREATING GAIN OR Loss.—(A)
If any person derives pecuniary gain from the violation, or if the
violation results in pecuniary loss to a person other than the
violator, the amount of the civil penalty may exceed the
amounts described in paragraphs (1) and (2) but may not exceed
the amount of such gain or loss.

(B) As used in this ph, the term “person” includes the
Bank Insurance Fund, the Savings Association Insurance Fund,
and the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund.

(c) VIOLATIONS TO WHICH PENALTY Is APPLICABLE.—This section
applies to a violation of, or a conspiracy to violate—

(1) section 215, 656, 657, 1005, 1006, 1007, 1014, or 1344 of title
18, United States Code; or

_ (2) section 1341 or 1348 of title 18, United States Code, affect-

i. poceral insured financial institution.

@ ENERAL TO BrinGc Action.—A civil action to re-
cover a all de penalty under this section shall be commenced by the
Attorney Gene

(e) BuRDEN OF Proor.—In a civil action to recover a civil penalty
under this section, the Attorney General must establish the right to
mecoveny by a preponderance of the evidence.

(f) ADMINISTRATIVE SUBPOENAS.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—For the pu rpose of conducting a civil inves-
tigation in contemplation of a civil proceeding under this sec-
tion, the Attorney eral pa aE

(A) administer oaths and affirmations;
(B) take evidence; and
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 499

(C) by subpoena, summon witnesses and require the
production of any books, papers, correspondence, memo-
randa, or other records which the Attorney General deems
relevant or material to the inquiry. Such subpoena may
require the attendance of witnesses and the production of
any such records from any place in the United States at any

lace ie the United States designated by the Attorney
neral.

(2) PROCEDURES APPLICABLE.—The same procedures and
limitations as are provided with respect to civil investigative
demands in subsections (g), (h), and (j) of section 1968 of title 18,
United States Code, apply with respect to a subpoena issued
under this subsection. Feces Bos actoty by such subsections to
be served upon the custodian be served on the Attorney
General. Failure to comply with an order of the court to enforce
such subpoena shall be punishable as contempt.

(8) Liwrration.—In the case of a subpoena for which the
return date is less than 5 days after the date of service, no
person shall be found in contempt for failure to comply by the
return date if such person files a petition under paragraph (2)
not later than 5 days after the date of service.

Subtitle F—Criminal Law and Procedure

SEC. 961. INCREASED CRIMINAL PENALTIES FOR CERTAIN FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION OFFENSES.

(a) Recerpt or COMMISSIONS OR GirTs FOR ProcurinG LOANs.—
Section 215(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
os ne striking oe rps inserti 7 aaa ll and
y striking “five” and inserting “20”.
(b) THerr, EMBEZZLEMENT, OR MISAPPLICATION BY BANK OFFICER
= EMPLOYEE.—Section 656 of title 18, United States Code, is amend-
(1) by striking $5,000” and inserting “$1,000,000”; and
(2) by striking “five” and inserting “20”.
(c) LENDING, CREDIT, AND INSURANCE INSTITUTIONS.—Section 657 of
title 1 yoy otrikiog “s6,000" ao ineecting $1,000,000 d
y “ 3 ”’ and inse : “ y : ”?- an
(2) by striking “five” and inserting “20”.
(d) Bank ENTRIES, Reports, AND TRANSACTIONS.—Section 1005 of
title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in the lst paragraph, by inserting “bank or savings and
loan holding company,” after ‘‘member bank,”;
(2) in the 3rd paragraph—
(A) by inserting “or company” after “bank” each place it

7 and
}) by striking the “—” at the end and inserting a
(8) by adding after the 3rd h the followi
Vy r the paragra e following:
“Whoever with intent to defraud the United States or any agency Fraud.
thereof, or any financial institution referred to in this section,
participates or shares in or receives (directly or indirectly) any
money, profit, property, or benefits through any transaction, loan,
re ie: aaa contract, or any other act of any such financial institu-
on—”;
(4) by striking “$5,000” and inserting “$1,000,000”; and
103 STAT. 500 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

Fraud.

(5) by striking “five” and inserting “20”.

(e) FEDERAL CrepiT INsTITUTION ENTRIES, REPORTS, AND TRANS-
ACTIONS.—Section 1006 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking “$10,000” and inserting ‘‘$1,000,000”; and

(2) by striking “five” and inserting “20”.
(f) FeprRAL Deposir INSURANCE CORPORATION TRANSACTIONS.—
a 1007 of title 18, United States Code, is amended to read as
ollows:

“§ 1007. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Transactions

“Whoever, for the purpose of influencing in any way the action of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, knowingly makes or
invites reliance on a false, forged, or counterfeit statement, docu-
ment, or thing shall be fined not more than $1,000,000 or imprisoned
not more than 20 years, or both.”

(g) FepERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN INSURANCE CORPORATION TRANS-
ACTIONS.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 47 of title 18, United States Code, is
amended by striking section 1008.

(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections at the begin-
ning of chapter 47 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
striking the item relating to section 1008.

(h) LOAN AND CreEpit APPLICATIONS GENERALLY; RENEWALS AND
Discounts; Crop INSURANCE.—Section 1014 of title 18, United States
Code, is amended—

(1) by striking “a Federal Home Loan Bank, the Federal
Home Bank Board, the Home Owners’ Loan Corporation,
a Federal Saving and Loan Association”’;

(2) by spins, Hg Federal Saving and Loan Insurance Cor-
poration, an the deposits of which are insured by”;

(3) by striking “any member of”;

(4) by inserti ‘the Resolution Trust Corporation” after
“Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,”;

(5) by striking “$5,000” and inserting “$1,000,000”; and

(6) by striking “two” and inpeeting 20”.

(i) FRaups AND SWINDLES.—Section 1341 of title 18, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end: “If the violation affects a
financial institution, such person shall be fined not more than
$1,000,000 or imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both.”.

(j) Fraup By Wire, Rapio, or TELEVISION.—Section 1343 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end: “If the
violation affects a financial institution, such person shall be fined
ae than $1,000,000 or imprisoned not more than 20 years, or

th.”’.

(k) BANK Fraup.—Section 1344 of title 18, United States Code, is
amended to read as follows:

“§ 1344. Bank fraud

“Whoever knowingly executes, or attempts to execute, a scheme
or artifice—
“(1) to defraud a financial institution; or
(2) to obtain any of the moneys, funds, credits, assets, securi-
ties, or other property owned by, or under the custody or control
of, a financial institution, by means of false or fraudulent
retenses, representations, or promises;
shall be fined not more than $1,000,000 or imprisoned not more than
20 years, or both.”’.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 501

(1) LimrraTIONs.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 213 of title 18, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the following:

“§ 3293. Financial institution offenses

“No person shall be prosecuted, tried, or punished for a violation
of, or a conspiracy to violate—

“(1) section 215, 656, 657, 1005, 1006, 1007, 1008, 1014, or 1344;
or

“(2) section 1341 or 1343, if the offense affects a financial
institution;

unless the indictment is returned or the information is filed within
10 years after the commission of the offense.”

(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections at the begin-
ning of chapter 213 of title 18, United States Code, is amended
by adding at the end the following new item:

“3293. Financial institution offenses.”

(3) EFFECT OF AMENDMENTS ON OFFENSES FOR WHICH THE CUR-
RENT PERIOD OF LIMITATIONS HAD NOT RUN.—The amendments
made by this subsection shall apply to an offense committed
before the effective date of this section, if the statute of limita-
tions applicable to that offense under this chapter had not run
as of such date.

(m) SENTENCING GUIDELINES.—Pursuant to section 994 of title 28,
United States Code, and section 21 of the Sentencing Act of 1987, the
United States Sentencing Commission shall promulgate guidelines,
or amend existing guidelines, to provide for a substantial period of
incarceration for a violation of, or a conspiracy to violate, section
215, 656, 657, 1005, 1006, 1007, 1014, 1341, 1343, or 1344 of title 18,
United States Code, that substantially jeopardizes the safety and
soundness of a federally insured financial institution.

SEC. 962. MISCELLANEOUS REVISIONS TO TITLE 18.

(a) Speciric TERMINOLOGY CHANGES AND REPEAL.—
(1) Secrion 212.—Section 212 of title 18, United States Code, is
amended—

(A) by striking “bank” the first place it appears and
inserting “financial institution” in lieu thereof;

(B) by striking “land bank” and all that follows through
“farm credit examiner” and inserting “Farm Credit Bank,
bank for cooperatives, production credit association, Fed-
eral land bank association, agricultural credit association,
Federal land credit association, service organization char-
tered under section 4.26 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, the
Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corporation, the
Federal Agricultural Mortgage Credit Corporation, the Fed-
eral Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation, the National
Consumer Cooperative Bank, or other institution subject to
examination by a Farm Credit Administration examiner”;

(C) in the 2nd undesignated paragraph, by striking “‘in-
sured banks” and inserting “insured financial institutions”
in lieu thereof; and

(D) in the 2nd undesignated paragraph, by striking “or by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation” and inserting
in lieu thereof “, by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-

18 USC 3293
note.

28 USC 994 note.
103 STAT. 502 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

tion, by the Office of Thrift Supervision, or by the Federal
Housing Finance
(2) Section 213.—Section 213 of title 18, United States Code, is
amended by striking “banks the deposits of which” and insert-
ing “financial institutions the deposits of which”’.
me) REPEAL OF SECTION 1009.—Title 18, United States Code, is
amended by striking out section 1009.
(4) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections at the
of chapter 47 of title 18, United States Code, is amend by
sree, out the item relating to section 1009.
(5) Secrion 1030(e\(4).—Section 1030(e)(4) of title 18, United
States Code, i is amended—

(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking “a bank” and insert-
ing “an institution,”’;

(B) by striking parts (C); and

(C) by redesignating nhperegrep phs (D), (E), (F), (G), and
(H), as subparagraphs ©), (D) (F), and (G), respectively.

(6) Section 1114.—Section 1114 of title 18, United States Code,
is amended—

(A) by striking “the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance
Corporation,”’; and

) by striking “the Federal Home Loan Bank Board” and
inserting “the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Federal
Housing Finance Board, the Resolution Trust Corporation”.

(7) CHANGES RELATING TO NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRA-
TION.—Sections 657, 1006, 1014, and 2113(h) of title 18, United
States Code, are each amended by striking “Administrator of
the National Credit Union Areulnletretie and inserting “‘Na-
tional Credit Union Administration Board”.

(8) CHANGES RELATING TO THE FARM CREDIT SystEM.—

(A) Sections 657 and 1006 of title 18, United States Code,
are each amended by striking “any land bank, intermediate
credit bank,” and inserting in lieu thereof “the Farm Credit
System Insurance Corporation, a Farm Credit Bank, a”.

(B) Section 1014 of title 18, United States Code, is amend-

ed—

(i) by striking “any Federal intermediate credit
bank” and all ay Sillows through “Title 12” and
inserting in lieu thereof “any Farm Credit Bank,
production credit association, agricultural credit
association, bank for coo 20s ele Aga or any division, offi-
cer, or employee thereof”;

(ii) by striking “Federal Svs and Loan Insurance
Corporation” and inserting “Farm Credit System
Insurance Corporation”’ in lieu thereof.

(b) Cross REFERENCE CHANGE.—Section 1306 of title 18, United
States Code, is amended by striking “section 20 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act, or section 410 of the National Housing Act”

an isa inserting ‘“‘or section 20 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act”’.

(c) OBSTRUCTION OF CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS.—Section 1510 of
title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1) b py redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
“(by 1) Whaetee being an officer of a financial institution, with
the intent to obstruct a judicial proceeding, directly or indirectly
notifies any other person about the existence or contents of a
subpoena for records of that financial institution, or information
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 503

that has been furnished to the grand jury in response to that
subpoena, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more
than 5 years, or both.

“(2) Whoever, being an officer of a financial institution, directly or
indirectly notifies—

“(A) a customer of that financial institution whose records are
sought by a grand jury subpoena; or

“(B) any other person named in that subpoena;

about the existence or contents of that subpoena or information that
has been furnished to the grand jury in response to that subpoena,
shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than one year,
or both.

“(3) As used in this subsection—

“(A) the term ‘an officer of a financial institution’ means an
officer, director, partner, employee, agent, or attorney of or for a
financial institution; and

“(B) the term ‘subpoena for records’ means a Federal grand
jury subpoena for customer records that has been served relat-
ing to a violation of, or a conspiracy to violate—

“() section 215, 656, 657, 1005, 1006, 1007, 1014, or 1344; or
“Gii) section 1341 or 1343 affecting a financial institu-
tion.”.
(d) CoNFORMING TERMINOLOGY IN BANK Rospery Secrion.—Sec-
tion 2118 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1) in subsection (6, by striking “any bank the deposits of
which” and inserting “any institution the deposits of which”;

(2) by adding before the period at the end of subsection (h) «
and any ‘Federal credit union’ as defined in section 2 of the
Federal Credit Union Act”; and

(3) by striking subsection (g) and redesignating subsection (h)
as subsection (g).

(e) CREATION OF GENERAL DEFINITION OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTION
FoR TITLE 18.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (b) of section 215 of title 18,
United States Code, is transferred to the end of chapter 1 of
such title.

(2) UPDATING AND TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—Such subsection
(b), as so transferred, is amended—

“ (A) by inserting at the beginning the following section
eading:

“§ 20. Financial institution defined”

(B) by striking “(b)”;
(C) by striking “this section” and inserting “this title”;
(D) so that paragraph (1) reads as follows:
“(1) an insured depository institution (as defined in section 3(c)(2)
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act);”;
(E) by striking phs (2) and (8);
(F) so that paragraph (5) reads as follows:
“(5) a System institution of the Farm Credit System, as defined in
section 5.35(3) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971;”;
(G) so that paragraph (7) reads as follows:
“(7) a rps institution holding company (as defined in sec-
ps 3(w\(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.”;
an
103 STAT. 504 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

Real property.

(H) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7) (as
amended by this pareeraty) as paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (5),
and (6), respectively.

(3) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections at the begin-
ning of chapter 1 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following new item:

“20. Financial institution defined.”.
SEC. 963. CIVIL AND CRIMINAL FORFEITURE.

(a) Crvi. Forrerrure.—Section 981(aX(1) of title 18, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

‘(C) Any property, real or personal, which constitutes or is
derived from p traceable to a violation of section 215,
656, 657, 1005, 1006, 1007, 1014, or 1344 of this title.”.

(b) TRANSFER OF Property UNper Crivit Forrerrure.—Section
981(e) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1) in the matter before paragraph (1), by striking out “‘deter-
mine to—” and inserting in lieu thereof “determine—”;

(2) by striking out paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting in lieu
thereof the oe

“(1) to any other Federal agency;

“(2) to any State or local law enforcement agency which
participated directly in any of the acts which led to the seizure
or forfeiture of the property;

“(3) in the case of property referred to in subsection (a)(1\C)
(if the affected financial institution is in receivership or liquida-
tion), to any Federal financial institution regulatory agency—

“(A) to reimburse the agency for payments to claimants
or creditors of the institution; and

“(B) to reimburse the insurance fund of the agency for
losses suffered by the fund as a result of the receivership or
liquidation;

“(4) in the case of property referred to in subsection (a1)(C)
(if the affected financial institution is not in receivership or
liquidation), upon the order of the appropriate Federal financial
institution regulatory agency, to the financial institution as
restitution, with the value of the property so transferred to be
set off against any amount later recovered by the financial
institution as compensatory damages in any State or Federal
proceeding; or

“(5) in the case of cat gre referred to in subsection (a)(1\C),
to any Federal financial institution regulatory agency, to the
extent of the agency’s contribution of resources to, or expenses
involved in, the seizure and forfeiture, and the investigation
— directly to the seizure and forfeiture, of such property.”;
an

(3) by adding at the end the following new sentence: “The
United States shall not be liable in any action arising out of a
transfer under paragraph (8), (4), or (5) of this subsection.”.

(c) CRIMINAL FORFEITURE.—Section 982 of title 18, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by inserting “(1)” after “(a)”; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
“(2) The court, in imposing sentence on a person convicted of a
violation of, or a conspiracy to violate, section 215, 656, 657, 1005,
1006, 1007, 1014, 1341, 1343, or 1344 of this title, affecting a financial
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 505

institution, shall order that the person forfeit to the United States
any property constituting, or derived from, proceeds the person
obtained directly or indirectly, as the result of such violation.”; and

(2) in subsection (b), by striking “(b) The provisions” and all
that follows through “However, the” and inserting in lieu
thereof the following:

“(b\1) Property subject to forfeiture under this section, any sei-
zure and disposition thereof, and any administrative or judicial
proceeding in relation thereto, shall be governed—

“(A) in the case of a forfeiture under subsection (a)(1) of this
section, by subsections (c) and (e) through (p) of section 413 of
the YT niee Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of
1970 (21 U.S.C. 853); and

“(B) in the case of a forfeiture under subsection (a2) of this
section, by subsections (b), (c), (e), and (g) through (p) of section
413 of such Act.

“(2) Th e”.

SEC. 964. GRAND JURY SECRECY.

(a) In GENERAL.—Chapter 215 of title 18, United States Code, is
amended by striking section 3322 and all that follows through
section 3328 and inserting the following:

“§ 3322. Disclosure of certain matters occurring before grand jury
“(a) A person who is privy to grand jury information concerning a

banking aw violation—
“(1) received in the course of duty as an attorney for the
government; or
“(2) disclosed under rule 6(e\(8)A\ii) of the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure;
may disclose that information to an attorney for the government for
use in enforcing section 951 of the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 or for use in connection with
civil forfeiture under section 981 of title 18, United States Code, of
pro ny described in section 981(a)(1\C) of such title.

bX Upon motion of an attorney for the government, a court
may direct disclosure of matters occurring before a grand jury
during an investigation of a banking law violation to identified
personnel of a financial institution regulatory agency—

“(A) for use in relation to any matter within the jurisdiction
of such regulatory agency; or
“(B) to assist an attorney for the government to whom mat-
: on have been disclosed under: —* (a). 5

yi court may issue an order under paragrap upon a
finding of a substantial need.

“(c) A person to whom matter has been disclosed under this
section shall not use such matter other than for the purpose for
which such disclosure was authorized.

“(d) As used in this section—

“(1) the term ‘banking law violation’ means a violation of, or a
conspiracy to violate—
“(A) section 215, 656, 657, 1005, 1006, 1007, 1014, or 1344;

or
“(B) section 1341 or 1343 affecting a financial institution;
(2) the term ‘attorney for the government’ has the meaning
~ such term in the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure;
an
103 STAT. 506

Texas.

Reports.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(3) the term ‘grand jury information’ means matters occur-
ring before a grand jury other than the deliberations of the
grand jury or the vote of any grand juror.”’.

(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections at the beginning
of chapter 215 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
eH the item relating to sections 3322 through 3328 and inserting the
ollowing:

“3322. Disclosure of certain matters occurring before grand jury.”’.

(c) Fark Creprr Reportinc Act AMENDMENT.—Paragraph (1) of
section 604 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681b) is
amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: “,
or a subpoena issued in connection with proceedings before a Fed-

eral grand jury”.
SEC. 965. CRIMINAL DIVISION FRAUD SECTION REGIONAL OFFICE.

(a) EsTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 120 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Department of Justice shall create a
regional office of the Fraud Section of the Criminal Division in the
Northern District of Texas, and maintain such office, by providing
ee legal and other staff and office space, through fiscal year

(b) Srupy.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall study and report to
the Congress on whether additional regional offices of the Fraud
Section of the Criminal Division should be established in other parts
of the country.

SEC. 966. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE APPROPRIATION AUTHORIZATION.

(a) In GenERAL.—There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Attorney General, without fiscal year limitation—

(1) $65,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1990 through 1992, for
purposes of investigations and prosecutions involving financial
institutions to which this Act and amendments made by this
Act apply; and

(2) $10,600,000 for each of fiscal years 1990 through 1992, for
purposes of civil proceedings involving financial institutions to
which this Act and amendments made by this Act apply.

(b) SUPPLANTATION AND REALLOCATION PROHIBITED.—Sums au-
thorized by this section—

(1) are in addition to any other sums authorized to be appro-
priated for such purposes;

(2) shall not be used to supplant sums otherwise available for
such purposes; and

(3) shall not be reallocated for any other purpose.

SEC. 967. AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE
JUDICIARY.

There is authorized to be appropriated to the Federal courts
system $10,000,000, to carry out such system’s duties under this Act,
for each of fiscal years 1990 through 1992.

SEC, 968. RACKETEER INFLUENCED AND CORRUPT ORGANIZATIONS.

Section 1961(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
inserting “section 1344 (relating to financial institution fraud),”
after “(relating to wire fraud),”’.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 507

TITLE X—STUDIES OF FEDERAL DEPOSIT 2 0sc 1811
INSURANCE, BANKING SERVICES, AND
THE SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS OF GOV-
ERNMENT-SPONSORED ENTERPRISES

SEC. 1001. STUDY OF FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE SYSTEM.

(a) In GENERAL.—The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation
with the Comptroller of the Currency, the Chairman of the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Director of the Office
of Thrift Supervision, the Chairperson of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, the Chairman of the National Credit Union
Administration Board, the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget, and individuals from the private sector, shall conduct a
study of the Federal deposit insurance system.

(b) Torics.—As part of the study required under subsection (a), the
Beriary of the Treasury shall investigate, review, and evaluate the

ollowing:

(1) The feasibility of establishing a deposit insurance pre-
mium rate structure which would take into account, on an
institution-by-institution basis—

(A) asset quality risk;

(©) quality | manage

quality o ment; an

(D) profitability and capital.

Pa Incentives for market discipline, including the advantages
rs) —

(A) limiting each depositor to 1 insured account per
institution;

(B) reducing the amount insured, or providing for a grad-
uated decrease in the percentage of the amounts deposited
which are insured as the amounts deposited increase;

(C) combining Federal with private insurance in order to
bring the market discipline of private insurance to bear on
the management of the depository institution; and

(D) ensuring, by law or regulation, that on the closing of
any insured depository institution, the appropriate Federal
insurance fund will honor only its explicit liabilities, and
will never make good any losses on deposits not explicitly
covered by Federal deposit insurance.

(3) The scope of deposit insurance coverage and its impact on
the liability of the insurance fund.

(4) The feasibility of market value accounting, assessments on
foreign deposits, limitations on brokered deposits, the addition
of collateralized borrowings to the deposit insurance base, and
multiple insured accounts.

(5) The impact on the deposit insurance funds of varying State
and Federal bankruptcy exemptions and the feasibility of—

e ape exemptions; ‘ i

its on exemptions when necessary to repay obliga-
tions owed to federally insured depository institutions; and

(C) requiring borrowers from federally insured depository
institutions to post a personal or corporate bond when
obtaining a mortgage on real property.
103 STAT. 508

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(6) Policies to be followed with respect to the recapitalization
or closure of insured depository institutions whose capital is
depleted to, or near the point of, insolvency.

(7) The efficiency of housing subsidies through the Federal
home loan bank system.

(8) Alternatives to Federal deposit insurance.

(9) The feasibility of developing and administering, through
the appropriate Federal banking agency, an examination of the
principles and techniques of risk management and the applica-
tion of such principles and techniques to the management of
insured institutions.

(10) The adequacy of capital of insured credit unions and the
National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, including
whether the supervision of such fund should be separated from
the other functions of the National Credit Union Administra-
tion.

gue The feasibility of requiring, by statute or other means,
that—

(A) independent auditors and accountants of a depository
institution report the results of any audit of the institution
to the relevant regulatory agency or agencies;

(B) a regulator share reports on a depository institution
with the institution’s independent auditors and account-
ants; and

(C) independent auditors and accountants participate in
conferences between the regulator and the depository
institution.

(12) The feasibility of adopting regulations which are the
same as or similar to the provisions of England’s Banking Act,
1987, ch. 22 (4 Halsbury’s Statutes of England and Wales 527-
650 (1987)), enacted on May 15, 1987, relating to the Bank of
England’s relationship with auditors and reporting accountants
ee sections 8, 39, 41, 45, 46, 47, 82, 88, 85, and 94 of such

ct).

(c) Frinau Report.—Not later than the close of the 18-month period

beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
the Treasury shall submit to the Congress a final report containing
a detailed statement of findings made, and conclusions drawn from,
the study conducted under this section, including such recommenda-
tions for administrative and legislative action as the Secretary
determines to be appropriate.

SEC. 1002. SURVEY OF BANK FEES AND SERVICES.

(a) ANNUAL SuRVEY REQUIRED.—The Board of Governors of the

Federal Reserve System shall obtain a sample, which is representa-
tive by geographic location and size of institution, of—

(1) certain retail banking services provided by insured deposi-
tory institutions; and

(2) the fees, if any, which are imposed by such institutions for
providing such services.

(b) ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS REQUIRED.—

(1) PrePpARATION.—The Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System shall prepare a report of the results of each
survey conducted pursuant to subsection (a).

(2) CoNTENTS OF REPORT.—Each report prepared pursuant to
paragraph (1) shall include—
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 509

(A) a description of any discernable trends in the cost and
availability of retail ing services; and

(B) a description of the correlation, if any, between—

(i) any increase in the amount of any deposit

insurance premium assessed by the Federal Deposit

Insurance Corporation against insured depository
institutions;

(ii) any increase in the amount of the fees imposed by

— institutions for providing retail banking services;

an
(iii) any decrease in the availability of such services.
(3) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—The Board of Governors of the Reports.
Federal Reserve System shall submit—
(A) the first annual re Oral required under paragraph (1)
not later than June 1, 1
(B) each subsequent annual Sain not later than June 1
of each calendar year beginning after 1990.
(c) SuNset.—The requirements of subsection (a) shall terminate at
the end gr the Ep asso period beginning on the later of—
(1) the 5-year period beginning on the date of the enactment
of this Act; or
(2) the date (if any) during the 2-year period beginning at the
end of such 5-year period, on which deposit insurance premiums
vee increased under section 7 of the Federal Deposit Insurance
ct.

SEC. 1003. GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE STUDY.

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Connerater General of the United States
shall conduct a study of — insurance issues raised by section
1001 oo hasizing in partic

1) analysis of the policy considerations affecting the scope of
deyait insurance coverage;

(2) evaluation of the risks associated with bank insurance
contracts both as to the issuing institution and the deposit
insurance funds; and

(3) the effect of proposed changes in the definition of “deposit”
on—

(A) market sap ers and
(B) the ability of other participants in capital markets to

raise funds
(b) Rerowr. —Not later than the close of the 18-month period
n the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller
General shall submit to the Congress the results of the study
required by subsection (a).

SEC. 1004. STUDY REGARDING CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS FOR GOVERN.-
MENT-SPONSORED ENTERPRISES.

(a) In GENERAL.—The Comptroller General of the United States
shall conduct a study of the risks undertaken by all government-
sponsored enterprises and the appropriate level of capital for such
enterprises consistent with—

(1) the financial soundness and stability of the government-
sponsored enterprises;

(2) minimizing any potential financial exposure of the Federal
Government; and

(3) minimizing any potential impact on borrowing of the
Federal Government.
103 STAT. 510

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(b) CONSULTATION AND COOPERATION WitH OTHER AGENCIES.—The
Comptroller General shall determine the structure and methodol
of the study under this section in consultation with and with the
cooperation of the Secretary of Agriculture and the Farm Credit
Administration (with respect to the Farm Credit Banks, the Banks
for Cooperatives, and the Federal icultural Mortgage Corpora-
tion), the Secretary of Education (with respect to the Student
Marketing Association and the College Construction Loan a ao
tion), the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (with re-
8 to the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal

ome Loan Mortgage Corporation), and the government-sponsored
enterprises.

(c) Access TO RELEVANT INFORMATION.—Each government-spon-
sored enterprise shall provide full and prompt access to the
Comptroller General to its books and records and shall hoe tly
provide any other information che ang by the Comptroller Gen-
eral. In conducting the study under this section, the Comptroller
General may request information from, or the assistance of, any
department or agency of the Federal Government that is authorized
by law to supervise or approve any of the activities of any govern-
ment-sponsored enterprise.

(d) Speciric REQUIREMENTS.—The study shall examine and evalu-

(1) the degrees and types of risks that are undertaken by the
government-sponsored enterprises in the course of their oper-
ations, including credit risk, interest rate risk, management and
operational risk, and business risk;

(2) the most appropriate method or methods for qaning
the types of risks undertaken by the government-sponso
enterprises;

(3) the actual level of risk that exists with respect to each
enlace eg ee enterprise, which shall take into account

actors including the volume and type of securities outstandi
that are issued or guaranteed by each government-sponso
enterprise and the extent of off-balance sheet expense of each
government-sponsored enterprise;

(4) the appropriateness of applying a risk-based capital stand-
ard to each government-sponsored enterprise, taking into ac-
count the nature of the business each government-sponsored
enterprise conducts;

(5) the costs and benefits to the public from application of a
risk-based capital standard to the government-sponsored enter-
prises and the impact of such a standard on the capability of
each government-sponsored enterprise to carry out its purpose
under law;

(6) the impact, if any, of the operation of the government-
sponsored enterprises on borrowing of the Federal Government;

(7) the ove level of capital appropriate for each of the
government-sponsored enterprises; and

(8) the quality and timeliness of information currently avail-
able to the public and the Federal Government concerning the
extent and nature of the activities of government-sponsored
enterprises and the financial risk associated with such activi-

ties.
J a sie ConcGress.—The omer Conere shall ge
to the Congress 2 reports regarding the study under this section. The
first report shall be submitted to the Congress not later than 9
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 511

months after the date of the enactment of this Act and the second
report shall be submitted to the Congress not later than 21 months
after the date of the enactment of this Act. Each report shall set
forth—

(1) the results of the study under this section;

(2) any recommendations of the Comptroller General with
respect to appropriate capital standards for each government-
sponsored enterprise;

(3) any recommendations of the Comptroller General with
respect to information that, in the determination of the
Comptroller General, should be provided to the Congress
concerning—

(A) the extent and nature of the activities of the govern-
ment-sponsored enterprises; and

(B) the nature of any periodic reports that the Comptrol-
ler General believes should be submitted to the Congress
relating to the capital condition and operations of the
government-sponsored enterprises; and

(4) any recommendations and opinions of the Secretary of
Agriculture, the Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Hous-
ing and Urban Development, and the Secretary of the Treasury
regarding the report, to the extent that the recommendations
and views of such officers differ from the recommendations and
opinions of the Comptroller General.

(f) Derrinttion.—For purposes of this section, the term “govern-
ment-sponsored enterprises” means the Federal Home Loan Mort-
gage Corporation, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the
Federal Home Loan Bank System, the Farm Credit Banks, the
Banks for Cooperatives, the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corpora-
tion, the College Construction Loan Insurance Corporation, the
Student Loan Marketing Association.

TITLE XI—REAL ESTATE APPRAISAL
REFORM AMENDMENTS

SEC. 1101. PURPOSE. 12 USC 3331.

The purpose of this title is to provide that Federal financial and
public policy interests in real estate related transactions will be
protected by requiring that real estate appraisals utilized in connec-
tion with federally related transactions are performed in writing, in
accordance with uniform standards, by individuals whose com-
petency has been demonstrated and whose professional conduct will
be subject to effective supervision.

SEC. 1102. ESTABLISHMENT OF APPRAISAL SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE FED-
ERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS EXAMINATION COUNCIL.

The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council Act of
1978 (12 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end thereof
the following new section:

“SEC. 1011. ESTABLISHMENT OF APPRAISAL SUBCOMMITTEE. 12 USC 3310.

“There shall be within the Council a subcommittee to be known as
the ‘Appraisal Subcommittee’, which shall consist of the designees of
the heads of the Federal financial institutions regulatory agencies.
103 STAT. 512 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

12 USC 3332.

Reports.

12 USC 3333.

12 USC 3334.

12 USC 3335.

Each such designee shall be a person who has demonstrated knowl-
edge and competence concerning the appraisal profession.”’.

SEC. 1103. FUNCTIONS OF APPRAISAL SUBCOMMITTEE.

(a) In GENERAL.—The Appraisal Subcommittee shall—

(1) monitor the requirements established by States for the
certification and licensing of individuals who are qualified to
perform appraisals in connection with federally related trans-
actions, including a code of professional responsibility;

(2) monitor the requirements established by the Federal
financial institutions regulatory agencies and the Resolution
Trust Corporation with respect to—

(A) appraisal standards for federally related transactions
under their jurisdiction, and

(B) determinations as to which federally related trans-
actions under their jurisdiction require the services of a
State certified appraiser and which require the services of a
State licensed appraiser;

(3) maintain a national registry of State certified and licensed
appraisers who are eligible to perform appraisals in federally
related transactions; and

(4) transmit an annual report to the Congress not later than
January 31 of each year which describes the manner in which
each function assigned to the Appraisal Subcommittee has been
carried out during the preceding year.

(b) MonrrorING AND REvIEWING FounpDATION.—The Appraisal
Subcommittee shall monitor and review the practices, procedures,
activities, and organizational structure of the Appraisal Foundation.

SEC. 1104. CHAIRPERSON OF APPRAISAL SUBCOMMITTEE; TERM OF
CHAIRPERSON; MEETINGS.

(a) CHarRPERSON.—The Council shall select the Chairperson of the
subcommittee. The term of the Chairperson shall be 2 years.

(b) Meetincs; Quorum; VoTinG.—The Appraisal Subcommittee
shall meet at the call of the Chairperson or a majority of its
members when there is business to be conducted. A majority of
members of the Appraisal Subcommittee shall constitute a quorum
but 2 or more members may hold hearings. Decisions of the Ap-
praisal Subcommittee shall be made by the vote of a majority of its
members.

SEC. 1105. OFFICERS AND STAFF.
The Chairperson of the Appraisal Subcommittee shall appoint
such officers and staff as may be necessary to carry out the func-

tions of this title consistent with the appointment and compensation
practices of the Council.
SEC. 1106. POWERS OF APPRAISAL SUBCOMMITTEE.

The Appraisal Subcommittee may, for the purpose of carrying out
this title, establish advisory committees, hold hearings, sit and act
at times and places, take testimony, receive evidence, provide
information, and perform research, as the Appraisal Subcommittee
considers appropriate.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 513

SEC. 1107. PROCEDURES FOR ESTABLISHING APPRAISAL STANDARDS AND 12 USC 3336.
REQUIRING THE USE OF CERTIFIED AND LICENSED
APPRAISERS.

Appraisal standards and requirements for using State certified
and licensed appraisers in federally related transactions pursuant to
this title shall be prescribed in accordance with procedures set forth
in section 553 of title 5, United States Code, including the publica-
tion of notice and receipt of written comments or the holding of
public hearings with respect to any standards or requirements
proposed to be established.

SEC. 1108, STARTUP FUNDING. 12 USC 3337.

(a) In GENERAL.—For purposes of this title, the Secretary of the
Treasury shall pay to the Appraisal Subcommittee a one-time pay-
ment of $5,000,000 on the date of the enactment of this Act. There-
after, expenses of the subcommittee shall be funded through the
collection of registry fees from certain certified and licensed apprais-
ers pursuant to section 1109 or, if required, pursuant to section
1122(b) of this title.

(b) ApprTrIONAL Funps.—Except as provided in section 1122(b) of
this title, funds in addition to the funds provided under subsection
(a) may be made available to the Appraisal Subcommittee only if
authorized and appropriated by law.

SEC. 1109. ROSTER OF STATE CERTIFIED OR LICENSED APPRAISERS; 12 USC 3338.
AUTHORITY TO COLLECT AND TRANSMIT FEES.

(a) In GENERAL.—Each State with an appraiser certifying and
licensing agency whose certifications and licenses comply with this
title, shall—

(1) transmit to the Appraisal Subcommittee, no less than
annually, a roster listing individuals who have received a State
certification or license in accordance with this title; and

(2) collect from such individuals who perform or seek to
perform appraisals in federally related transactions, an annual
registry fee of not more than $25, such fees to be transmitted by
the State agencies to the Council on an annual basis.

Subject to the approval of the Council, the Appraisal Subcommittee
may adjust the dollar amount of registry fees, up to a maximum of
a per annum, as necessary to carry out its functions under this
title.

(b) Usk oF AMOUNTS APPROPRIATED OR COLLECTED.—Amounts
appropriated for or collected by the Appraisal Subcommittee under
this section shall be used— ;

(1) to maintain a registry of individuals who are qualified and
eligible to perform appraisals in connection with federally re-
lated transactions;

(2) to support its activities under this title;

(3) to reimburse the general fund of the bday for amounts
appropriated to and expended by the Appraisal Subcommittee
during the 24-month startup period following the date of the
enactment of this title; and

(4) to make grants in such amounts as it deems appropriate to
the Appraisal Foundation, to help defray those costs of the
foundation relating to the activities of its Appraisal Standards
and Appraiser Qualification Boards.
103 STAT. 514

12 USC 3339.

12 USC 3340.

12 USC 3341.

12 USC 3342.

Housing.

12 USC 3343.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

SEC. 1110. FUNCTIONS OF THE FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS REGU-
LATORY AGENCIES RELATING TO APPRAISAL STANDARDS.

Each Federal financial institutions regulatory agency and the
Resolution Trust Corporation shall prescribe appropriate standards
for the performance of real estate appraisals in connection with
federally related transactions under the jurisdiction of each such
agency or instrumentality. These rules shall require, at a mini-
mum—

(1) that real estate appraisals be performed in accordance
with generally accepted appraisal standards as evidenced by the
appraisal standards promulgated by the Appraisal Standards
Board of the Appraisal Foundation; and

(2) that such appraisals shall be written appraisals.

Each such agency or instrumentality may require compliance with
additional standards if it makes a determination in writing that
such additional standards are required in order to properly carry
out its statutory responsibilities.

SEC, 1111. TIME FOR PROPOSAL AND ADOPTION OF STANDARDS.

Appraisal standards established under this title shall be proposed
not later than 6 months and shall be adopted in final form and
become effective not later than 12 months after the date of the
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 1112. FUNCTIONS OF THE FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS REGU-
LATORY AGENCIES RELATING TO APPRAISER QUALIFICA-
TIONS.

Each Federal financial institutions regulatory agency and the
Resolution Trust Corporation shall prescribe, in accordance with
sections 1113 and 1114 of this title, which categories of federally
related transactions should be appraised by a State certified ap-
praiser and which by a State licensed appraiser under this title.

SEC. 1113. TRANSACTIONS REQUIRING THE SERVICES OF A STATE CER-
TIFIED APPRAISER.

In determining whether an appraisal in connection with a feder-
ally related transaction shall be performed by a State certified
appraiser, an agency or instrumentality under this title shall con-
sider whether transactions, either individually or collectively, are of
sufficient financial or public policy importance to the United States
that an individual who performs an appraisal in connection with
such transactions should be a State certified appraiser, except
that—

(1) a State certified appraiser shall be required for all feder-
aa related transactions having a value of $1,000,000 or more;
an

(2) 1-to-4 unit, single family residential appraisals may be
performed by State licensed appraisers unless the size and
complexity requires a State certified appraiser.

SEC. 1114. TRANSACTIONS REQUIRING THE SERVICES OF A STATE LI-
CENSED APPRAISER.

All federally related transactions not requiring the services of a
State certified appraiser shall be performed by either a State cer-
tified or licensed appraiser.
PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 515

SEC. 1115. TIME FOR PROPOSAL AND ADOPTION OF RULES. 12 USC 3344.

As appropriate, rules issued under sections 1113 and 1114 shall be
pro not later than 6 months and shall be effective upon
adoption in final form not later than 12 months after the date of the
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 1116. CERTIFICATION AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS. 12 USC 3345.

(a) In GeENERAL.—For papeee of this title, the term “State
certified real estate appraiser’ means any individual who has satis-
fied the requirements for State certification in a State or territory
whose criteria for certification as a real estate appraiser currently
meets the minimum criteria for certification issued by the Appraiser
Qualification Board of the Appraisal Foundation.

(b) Resrricrion.—No individual shall be a State certified real
estate appraiser under this section unless such individual has
achieved a passing grade upon a suitable examination administered
by a State or territory that is consistent with and equivalent to the

niform State Certifica tion Examination issued or endorsed by the
Appraiser Qualification Board of the Appraisal Foundation.

(c) DertniT1ion.—As used in this section, the term “State licensed
appraiser” means an individual who has satisfied the requirements
for State licensing in a State or territory.

(d) AppITIONAL QUALIFICATION CriTERIA.—Nothing in this title
shall be construed to prevent any Federal agency or instrumentality
under this title from establishing such additional qualification cri-
teria as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the statutory
responsibilities of such department, agency, or instrumentality.

SEC. 1117. ESTABLISHMENT OF STATE APPRAISER CERTIFYING AND 12 USC 3346.
LICENSING AGENCIES.

To assure the availability of State certified and licensed apprais-
ers for the performance in a State of appraisals in federally related
transactions and to assure effective se tice of the activities of
certified and licensed appraisers, a State may establish a State
appraiser certifying and licensing agency.

SEC, 1118. MONITORING OF STATE APPRAISER CERTIFYING AND LICENS- 12 USC 3347.
ING AGENCIES.

(a) In GenerRAL.—The Appraisal Subcommittee shall monitor
State appraiser certifying and licensing agencies for the purpose of
determining whether a State agency’s policies, practices, and proce-
dures are consistent with this title. The Appraisal Subcommittee
and all agencies, instrumentalities, and federally recognized entities
under this title shall not recognize appraiser certifications and
licenses from States whose appraisal policies, practices, or proce-
dures are found to be inconsistent with this title.

(b) DisapprovAL By APPRAISAL SUBCOMMITTEE.—The Federal
financial institutions, regulatory agencies, the Federal National
Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corpora-
tion, and the Resolution Trust eg sisagecs shall accept certifi-
cations and licenses awarded by a State appraiser certifying the
licensing agency unless the Appraisal Subcommittee issues a writ-
ten finding that—

(1) the State agency fails to recognize and enforce the stand-
ta requirements, and procedures prescribed pursuant to this
e;
103 STAT. 516 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(2) the State agency is not granted authority by the State
which is adequate to permit the agency to carry out its func-
tions under this title; or

(3) decisions concerning appraisal standards, appraiser quali-
fications and supervision of appraiser practices are not made in
a manner that carries out the purposes of this title.

(c) REJECTION OF STATE CERTIFICATIONS AND LICENSES.—

(1) OPPORTUNITY TO BE HEARD OR CORRECT CONDITIONS.—Before
refusing to recognize a State’s appraiser certifications or li-
censes, the Appraisal Subcommittee shall provide that State’s
certifying and licensing agency a written notice of its intention
not to recognize the State’s certified or licensed appraisers and
ample opportunity to provide rebuttal information or to correct
the conditions causing the refusal.

(2) ADOPTION OF PROCEDURES.—The Appraisal Subcommittee
shall adopt written procedures for taking actions described in
this section.

(3) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—A decision of the subcommittee under
this section shall be subject to judicial review.

12 USC 3348. SEC. 1119. RECOGNITION OF STATE CERTIFIED AND LICENSED APPRAIS-
ERS FOR PURPOSES OF THIS TITLE.

6 (a) ErrectivE Date For USE oF CERTIFIED OR LICENSED APPRAISERS
NLY.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than July 1, 1991, all appraisals
performed in connection with federally related transactions
shall be performed only by individuals certified or licensed in
accordance with the requirements of this title.

(2) EXTENSION OF EFFECTIVE DATE.—Subject to the approval of
the council, the Appraisal Subcommittee may extend, until
December 31, 1991, the effective date for the use of certified or
licensed appraisers if it makes a written finding that a State has
made substantial progress in establishing a State certification
and licensing system that appears to conform to the provisions
of this title.

(b) TEMPORARY WAIVER OF APPRAISER CERTIFICATION OR LICENSING
REQUIREMENTS FOR STATE HAVING SCARCITY OF QUALIFIED APPRAIS-
ERS.—Subject to the approval of the Council, the Appraisal Sub-
committee may waive any requirement relating to certification or
licensing of a person to perform appraisals under this title if the
Appraisal Subcommittee or a State agency whose certifications and
licenses are in compliance with this title, makes a written deter-
mination that there is a scarcity of certified or licensed appraisers to
perform appraisals in connection with federally related transactions
in a State leading to inordinate delays in the performance of such
appraisals. The waiver terminates when the Appraisal Subcommit-
tee determines that such inordinate delays have been eliminated.

(c) Reports To STATE CERTIFYING AND LICENSING AGENCIES.—The
Appraisal Subcommittee, any other Federal agency or instrumental-
ity, or any federally recognized entity shall report any action of a
State certified or licensed appraiser that is contrary to the purposes
of this title, to the appropriate State agency for a disposition of the
subject of the referral. The State agency shall provide the Appraisal
Subcommittee or the other Federal agency or instrumentality with
a report on its disposition of the matter referred. Subsequent to such
disposition, the subcommittee or the agency or instrumentality may
PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 517

take such further action, pursuant to written procedures, it deems
necessary to carry out the purposes of this title.

SEC. 1120. VIOLATIONS IN OBTAINING AND PERFORMING APPRAISALS IN 12 USC 3349.
FEDERALLY RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

(a) VioLations.—Except as authorized by the Appraisal Sub-
committee in exercising its waiver authority pursuant to section
1119(b), it shall be a violation of this section—

(1) for a financial institution to seek, obtain, or give money or
any other thing of value in exchange for the performance of an
appraisal by a person who the institution knows is not a State
certified or licensed appraiser in connection with a federally
related transaction; and

(2) for the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Fed-
eral Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or the Resolution Trust
peeps to eer contract for the performance of any
appraisal by a person who is not a State certified or licensed
appraiser in connection with a real estate related financial
transaction defined in section 1121(5) to which such association
or corporation is a party.

(b) Penatties.—A financial institution that violates subsection
(aX1) shall be subject to civil penalties under section 8(i2) of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act or section 206(k\2) of the Federal
Credit Union Act, as Pipe sstee a

(c) PROCEEDING.— A proceeding with respect to a violation of this
section shall be an administrative proceeding which may be con-
ducted by a Federal financial institutions tory agency in
accordance with the procedures set forth in su pter II of chapter
5 of title 5, United States Code.

SEC, 1121. DEFINITIONS. 12 USC 3350.

For p of this title:

(1) STATE APPRAISER CERTIFYING AND LICENSING AGENCY. —The
term “State appraiser certifying and licensing agency” means a
State agency established in compliance with title.

(2) APPRAISAL SUBCO ; SUBCOMMITTEE.—The terms
“Appraisal Subcommittee” and “subcommittee” mean the Ap-
praisal Subcommittee of the Federal Financial Institutions
Examination Council.

(3) Councit.—The term “Council” means the Federal Finan-
cial Institutions Examinations Council.

(4) FEDERALLY RELATED TRANSACTION. —The term “federally
related transaction” means any real estate-related financial
, he pc as financial regula’

a fede inancial institutions tory agency or
the Resolution Trust Corporation engages in, contracts for,
or regulates; and

(B) requires the services of an appraiser.

(5) REAL ESTATE RELATED FINANCIAL TRANSACTION.—The term
“real estate-related financial transaction” means any trans-
action involving—

Bi. the sale, lease, purchase, investment in or exchange of
sai perty, including interests in property, or the financ-
ine thereof;
(B) the refinancing of real property or interests in real
property; and
103 STAT. 518 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG, 9, 1989

12 USC 33651.

(C) the use of real property or interests in property as
security for a loan or investment, including mortgage-
backed securities.

(6) FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS REGULATORY AGENCIES.—
The term “Federal financial institutions regulatory agencies”
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift Supervision,
and the National Credit Union Administration.

(7) FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.—The term “financial institution”
means an insured depository institution as defined in section 3
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or an insured credit union
as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act.

(8) CHarRPERSON.—The term “Chairperson” means the Chair-
person of the Appraisal Subcommittee selected by the council.

(9) FounpaTion.—The terms “Appraisal Foundation” and
“Foundation” means the Appraisal Foundation established on
November 30, 1987, as a not for profit corporation under the
laws of Illinois.

(10) WritTEN APPRAISAL.—The term “written appraisal”
means a written statement used in connection with a federally
related transaction that is independently and impartially pre-
pared by a licensed or certified appraiser setting forth an
opinion of defined value of an adequately described property as
of a specific date, supported by presentation and analysis of
relevant market information.

SEC. 1122. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

(a) TemporARY Practice.—A State appraiser certifying or licens-
ing agency shall recognize on a tempo basis the certification or
license of an appraiser issued by another State if—

(1) the property to be appraised is part of a federally related
transaction,

(2) the appraiser’s business is of a temporary nature, and

(3) the appraiser registers with the appraiser certifying or
licensing agency in the State of temporary practice.

(b) SUPPLEMENTAL FuNDING.—Funds available to the Federal
financial institutions regulatory agencies may be made available to
the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council to support
the council’s functions under this title.

(c) PROHIBITION AGAINST DISCRIMINATION.—Criteria established by
the Federal financial institutions or agencies, the Federal
National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation, and the Resolution Trust Corporation for appraiser
qualifications in addition to State certification or licensing shall not
exclude a certified or licensed appraiser for consideration for an
assignment solely by virtue of membership or lack of membership in
any particular appraisal organization.

(d) OrmeR REQUIREMENTS.—A corporation, partnership, or other
business entity may provide appraisal services in connection with
federally related transactions if such appraisal is prepared by
individuals certified or licensed in accordance with the require-
ments of this title. An individual who is not a State certified or
licensed appraiser may assist in the preparation of an appraisal if—

(1) the assistant is under the direct supervision of a licensed
or certified individual; and
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(2) the final appraisal document is approved and signed by an
individual who is certified or licensed.
(e) Srupres.—
(1) Srupy.—The Appraisal Subcommittee shall—

(A) conduct a study to determine whether real estate
sales and financing information and data that is available
to real estate appraisers in the States is sufficient to permit
appraisers to properly estimate the values of properties in
connection with federally related transactions; and

(B) study the feasibility and desirability of extending the
provisions of this title to the function of personal property
appraising and to personal property appraisers in connec-
tion with Federal financial and public policy interests.

(2) Report.—The Appraisal Subcommittee shall—

(A) report its findings to the Congress with respect to the
study described in paragraph (1)(A) no later than 12 months
after the date of the enactment of this title, and

(B) report its findings with respect to the study described
in paragraph (1B) to Congress not later than 18 months
after the date of the enactment of this title.

TITLE XII—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 1201. GAO STUDY OF CREDIT UNION SYSTEM.

(a) In GENERAL.—The Comptroller General of the United States
shall conduct a comprehensive study of the Nation’s credit union
system. In conducting the study, the Comptroller General shall
examine—

(1) credit unions’ present and future role in the financial
marketplace;

(2) the financial condition of credit unions;

(3) credit union capital;

(4) credit union regulation and supervision on both the Fed-
eral and State levels;

(5) whether the National Credit Union Administration
examinations of credit unions are comparable in frequency and
quality to supervisory examinations of insured banks and sav-
ings associations;

(6) the structure and financial condition of the National
Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, including whether super-
vision of that Fund should be separated from the other func-
tions of the National Credit Union Administration Board; and

(7) whether the common bond rules ing credit union
membership continue to serve their o purpose.

Comparative information with other types of depository institutions
should be included.

(b) Susmission.—Before the close of the 18-month period begin-
ning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Pmt
General shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Finance and
Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate a final report
which shall contain a detailed statement of findings and conclu-
sions, including recommendations for such administrative and legis-
lative action as the Comptroller General deems advisable.

103 STAT. 519

12 USC 1752a
note.

Reports.
103 STAT. 520

12 USC 1811
note.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

SEC. 1202. OCC EMPLOYMENT PROVISION.

The 3rd undesignated paragraph of section 5240 of the Revised
Statutes (12 U.S.C. 482) is amended—

(1) by striking out the Ist sentence and inserting in lieu
thereof the following:

“Notwithstanding any of the F agp gees provisions of this section
to the contrary, the Comptroller of the Currency shall fix the
compensation and number of, and appoint and direct, all employees
of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Rates of basic pay
for all employees of the Office may be set and adjusted by the
Comptroller without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 or sub-
chapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code. The
Comptroller may provide additional compensation and benefits to
employees of the Office if the same compensation or benefits
are then being provided by any other Federal bank regulatory
agency or, if not then being provided, could be provided by such an
agency under applicable provisions of law, rule, or regulation. In
setting and adjusting the total amount of compensation and benefits
for employees of the Office, the Comptroller s consult with, and
seek to maintain comparability with, other Federal banking
agencies.”’; and

(2) by redesignating the remaining sentences of such undesig-
nated paragraph as a new undesignated paragraph.

SEC. 1203. NCUA EMPLOYMENT PROVISION.

Section 120 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1766) is
amon by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
“(j) StaFr.—

“(1) APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.—The Board shall fix
the compensation and number of, and appoint and direct,
employees of the Board. Rates of basic pay for employees of the
Board may be set and adjusted by the Board without regard to
the provisions of er 51 or subchapter III of chapter 53 of
title 5, United States Code.

“(2) ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS.—The Board
may provide additional compensation and benefits to employees
of the Board if the same type of compensation or benefits are
then being provided by any other Federal bank regulato
agency or, if not then a provided, could be provided by suc
an agency under applicable provisions of law, rule, or regula-
tion. In setting and adjusting the total amount of compensation
and benefits for employees of the Board, the Board shall seek to
maintain comparability with other Federal bank regulatory
agencies.

“(3) Funpinc.—The salaries and expenses of the Board and
enbioroes of the Board shall be paid from fees and assessments
(including income earned on insurance deposits) levied on in-
sured credit unions under this Act.”.

SEC. 1204. EXPANSION OF USE OF UNDERUTILIZED MINORITY BANKS,
WOMEN’S BANKS, AND LOW-INCOME CREDIT UNIONS.

(a) CONSULTATION ON ExPANDED Usr.—The Secretary of the Treas-
ury shall consult with the appropriate Federal banking agencies and
the National Credit Union Administration Board on methods for
increasing the use of underutilized minority banks, women’s banks,
and limited income credit unions as depositaries or financial agents
of Federal agencies.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 521

(b) Report to Concress.—The Secretary of the Treasury shall
include, in the Ist annual report submitted to the Congress under
section 331(a) of title 31, United States Code, after the completion of
the consultation required by subsection (a), a report of the actions
taken by the Secretary to increase the use of underutilized minori
banks, women’s banks, and limited income credit unions as deposi-
taries or financial agents of Federal agencies.

(c) Dermnttions.—For purposes of this section:

(1) APPROPRIATE FEDERAL BANKING AGENCY.—The term
“appropriate Federal banking agency” has the meaning given
° such term in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance

ct.

(2) Minority BANK.—The term “minority bank” means any
deposi institution described in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of
section 19(bX 1A) of the Federal Reserve Act—

(A) more than 50 percent of the ownership or control of
which is held by 1 or more minority individuals; and

(B) more than 50 percent of the net profit or loss of which
accrues to 1 or more minority individuals.

(3) Mrnortry.—The term “minority” means any Black Amer-
ican, Native American, Hispanic American, or Asian American.

(4) Low-INCOME Sy ei pores —The term “low-income credit
union” means any ee described in section
1%bX1XAXiv) of the rederel rve Act which serves predomi-
nately low-income members (as defined by the National Credit
Union Administration Board pursuant to section 101(5) of the
Federal Credit Union Act).

(5) Women’s BANK.—The term “women’s bank” means any
depository institution described in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of
section 19(bX 1A) of the Federal Reserve Act—

(A) more than 50 percent of the outstanding shares of
which are held by 1 or more women;

(B) a majority of the directors on the board of directors of
which are women; and

(C) a significant percentage of senior management posi-
tions of which are held by women.
SEC. 1205. CREDIT STANDARDS ADVISORY COMMITTEE. ae 1818
n .

(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is hereby established the Credit Stand-
ards Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as the
“Committee’’).

(b) MEMBERSHIP.—

(1) APPoINTMENT.—The Committee shall consist of 11 mem-
bers, as follows:
(A) The Chairman of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System, or the Chairman’s designee.
(B) The Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, or the
Director’s designee.
(C) The m of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, or the Chairperson’s designee.
) The Comptroller of the Currency, or the Comptroller’s

oan Th The Chairman of the National Credit Union Adminis-
tration, or the Chairman’s designee.

(F) 6 members of the public appointed by the President
who are knowledgeable with the credit standards and lend-
103 STAT. 522

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

ing practices of insured depository institutions, no more
than 3 of whom shall be from the same political party.
(2) Terms.—Each member appointed under paragraph (1)F)
shall serve for the life of the Committee.
(3) CHAIRPERSON.—The members shall elect a chairperson of
the Committee who shall serve for a term of 1 year.
(4) VacANCiEs.—Any vacancy on the Committee shall be filled
in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
(5) Pay AND EXPENSES.—Members of the Committee shall
serve without pay but each member of the Committee shall be
reimbursed for expenses incurred in connection with attend-
ance of such members at meetings of the Committee. All ex-
penses of the Committee shall be shared on a pro rata basis,
based upon each agency’s total budget for the preceding year by
the Federal financial regulators specified in subparagraphs (A)
through (E) of paragraph (1).
(6) Meetincs.—The Committee shall meet, not less frequently
than quarterly, at the call of the chairperson or a majority of
the members.

(c) DuTIES OF THE COMMITTEE.—The Committee shall do the

following:

(1) REVIEW CREDIT STANDARDS, LENDING PRACTICES, AND SUPER-
VISION BY FEDERAL REGULATORS.—Review the credit standards
and lending practices of insured depository institutions and the
supervision of such standards and practices by the Federal
financial regulators.

(2) PREPARE RECOMMENDATIONS.—Prepare written comments
and recommendations for the Federal financial regulators to
ensure that insured depository institutions adhere to prudential
credit standards and lending practices that are consistent for
all insured depository institutions, to the maximum extent
possible.

(3) MoNrroR CREDIT STANDARDS, LENDING PRACTICES, AND
SUPERVISION BY FEDERAL REGULATORS.—Monitor the credit
standards and lending practices of insured depository institu-
tions, and the supervision of such standards and practices by
the Federal financial regulators, to ensure that insured deposi-
tory institutions can meet the demands of a modern and glob-
ally competitive financial world.

(d) ANNUAL REpoRT.—

(1) Requrrep.—Not later than January 30 of each year, the
Committee shall submit a report to the Committee on Banking,
Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and
ae Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the

nate.

(2) Contents.—The report required by paragraph (1) shall
describe the activities of the Committee during the preceding
year and the reports and recommendations made by the
Committee to the Federal financial regulators.

(e) Conriict oF INTEREST GUIDELINES.—The Committee shall pre-
scribe such guidelines as the Committee determines to be appro-
priate to avoid conflicts of interest with respect to the disclosure to
and use by members of the Committee of information relating to
insured depository institutions and the Federal financial regulators.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 523

SEC. 1206. COMPARABILITY IN COMPENSATION SCHEDULES. 12 USC 1833b.
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Comptroller of
the Currency, the National Credit Union Administration , the

Federal Housing Finance Board, the mary wre eee of the Resolu-
tion Trust Corporation, the Farm Credit istration, and the
Office of Thrift Supervision, in establishing and adjusting schedules
of compensation and benefits which are to be determined solely by
each agency under applicable provisions of law, shall inform the
heads of the other agencies and the Congress of such compensation
and benefits and shall seek to maintain comparability regarding
compensation and benefits.

SEC. 1207, STUDY BY SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY. et ici

Not later than the close of the 18-month period ge on ed
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary
shall conduct a study and sis a to the Congress on—

(1) whether, and to what extent, the issuance of securities by
the United States Government in small denominations benefits
small investors, increases the participation of small investors in
United States Government securities offerings, and promotes
savings and thrift by the ave United States taxpayer; and

(2) additional measures the recommends be taken
to expand the availability of securities issued by the United
States Government to benefit small investors, increase their
participation in United States Government securities offerings,
and to promote savings and thrift by the average United States
taxpayer.

SEC. 1208. EXPENDITURE OF TAXPAYER MONEY ONLY FOR DEPOSIT 12 USC 1811
INSURANCE PURPOSES. note.

Funds appropriated to the gcntg ed of the Treasury pursuant to
an bomen contained in this Act, > ane any a  eiithortesd
to borrow: m Secretary of Treasury by any entity
pursuant to this Act, may only be used as permitted by law, an
may not otherwise be used for making any payment to any ace.
holder in, or creditor to, any insured depository institution.

SEC. 1209. AMENDMENT TO SECTION 5373 OF TITLE 5, UNITED STATES
CODE.

Paragraph (2) of section 5373 of title 5, United States Code, is
amended to read as follows:

“(2) sections 248, 482, 1766, and 1819 of title 12, section 206 of
the Bank Conservation Sere "sections 2B(b) and grpeing of the
Federal Home Loan Bank Act, section 2A(i) of the Home
paket nany Act, and sections 5.11 and 5.58 of the Farm Credit

ct o a

SEC. 1210. FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION AND FARM CREDIT SYSTEM
INSURANCE CORPORATION EMPLOYMENT PROVISION.

Section 5.11(cX2) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2245) is
amended to read as follows:
“(2) regres AND EMPLOYEES.—

“(A) APPOINTMENT, COMPENSATION, AND BENEFITS.—The
Chairman Se cae the compensation and number of, and
appoin : ne of the Administration. The
een carat oe ee ae oe Say for
employees of the Administration without regard to
103 STAT. 524 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

Regulations.

Public

information.

provisions of chapter 51, or subchapter III of chapter 53, of
title 5, United States Code. The Chairman may provide
such additional compensation and benefits to employees of
the Administration as is necessary to maintain comparabil-
ity with the total amount of compensation and benefits
provided og other Federal bank regulatory agencies. In
setting and adjusting the total amount of compensation and
benefits a employees of the Administration, the Chairman
shall consult with, and seek to maintain comparability
with, other Federal bank regulatory agencies.
“(B) OTHER FEDERAL BANK REGULATORY AGENCIES DE-
FINED.—For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘other
Federal bank regulatory agencies’ has the same meaning
given to the term ‘a appro riate Federal banking agency’ in
section 3(q) of the F Deposit Insurance Act.
“(C) Eruics In fbaetirget. 2 —The officers and employees
of the agency shall be—
Fa subject to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978;
an
“(ii) considered officers or emplo yer of the United
States for the purposes of sections 201 through 203, and
one 205 through 209, of title 18, United States
e.”,

SEC. 1211. FAIR LENDING OVERSIGHT AND ENFORCEMENT.

(a) INFORMATION REGARDING INCOME LEVEL, RActAL CHARACTERIS-
TICS, AND GENDER OF MorRTGAGORS AND MorTGAGE APPLICANTS.—
Section 304(b) of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (12
U.S.C. 2803(b)) is amended—

(1) in paragraph (2), by striking out “and” after the semicolon
at the end;

(2) in paragraph (3), by sets out the period at the end and
inserting in lieu thereof “; and”;

(3) by adding at the end ‘the following new paragraph:

“(4) the number and dollar amount of mortgage loans and
completed applications involving mortgagors or mortgage ap-
plicants grouped according to census tract, income level, racial
characteristics, and gender.’’.

(b) SUBMISSION TO AGENCIES. —Section 304 of the Home Mortgage
Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2803) is amended by adding at the
end the following:

“(h) SUBMISSION TO AGENCIES.—The data required to be disclosed
under subsection (b)(4) shall be submitted to the appropriate agency
for each institution reporting under this title. Notwithstanding the
requirement of section 304(aX2\A) for disclosure by census tract, the
Board, in cooperation with other appropriate regulators, Sen iy tins,

“(1) the Comptroller of the Currency for national ban

“(2) the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision for savings
associations;

“(3) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for banks
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (other
than members of the Federal Reserve System), mutual savings
banks, and any other depository institution described in section
303(2XA) which is not otherwise referred to in this paragraph;

(4) the National Credit Union Administration Board for
credit unions; and
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 525

“(5) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for
other lending institutions not regulated by the agencies referred

to in paragraphs (1) through (4),
shall develop regulations prescribing the format for such disclo-
sures, the method for submission of the data to the appropriate
regulatory agency, and the procedures for disclosing the information
to the public. These regulations shall also require the collection of
data required to be disclosed under subsection (b\(4) with respect to
loans sold by each institution reporting under this title, and, in
addition, shall require disclosure of the class of the purchaser of
such loans. Any reporting institution may submit in writing to the
appropriate agency such additional data or explanations as it deems
relevant to the decision to “— or purchase mortgage loans.”.

(c) INFORMATION REGARDING LOAN APPLICATIONS.—

(1) GENERAL REPORTING REQUIREMENT.—Section 304(a)(1) of
the Home Mo e Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2803(a\1))
is amended by atctking out “originated, or” and inserting in lieu
thereof “originated (or for which the institution received com-
pleted applications), or’.

(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—

(A) The last sentence of section 304(a\(2) of the Home
Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2803(a\(2)) is
amended by inserting after “originated or purchased” the
following: “(or for which completed applications were
received)”.

(B) Section 304(g)(1) of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act
of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2803(g)(1)) is amended by inserting after
“made” the following: “(or for which completed applications
are received)’.

(C) Section 304(g\(2) of the Home me Disclosure Act
of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2803(g\(2)) is amended by inserting after
“approved” the following: “(or for which completed applica-
tions are received)’.

(D) The first sentence of section 311 of the Home Mort-
gage Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2810) is amended by
inserting after “approved” the following: “(or for which
completed applications are received)”.

(d) APPLICABILITY OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS TO ALL MortTGAGE
LENDERS.—Section 303(2) of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of
1975 (12 U.S.C. 2802(2)) is amended to read as follows:

“(2) the term ‘depository institution’—
“(A) means—
“(i) any bank (as defined in section 3(aX1) of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act);
“(ii) -p4 savings association (as defined in section
3(b)\(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act); and
“(iii) any credit union,
which makes federally related mortgage loans as deter-
mined by the Board; and

“(B) includes any other lending institution (as defined in
paragraph (4)) other than any institution described in
subparagraph (A);”.

(e) CoMPLETED APPLICATION DerFINED.—Section 303 of the Home
Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2802) is amended—

(1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (5)
and (6), respectively; and
103 STAT. 526 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

12 USC 2802
note.

(2) by eng after paragraph (2) the following new

“(3) the term ‘completed application’ means an application in
which the creditor has received the information that is regu-
larly obtained in evaluating applications for the amount and
type of credit requested;

‘(4) the she ‘other lending institutions’ means any person
engaged for profit in the business of mortgage lending;’.

(f) AppLicaBitity oF Home MortGcace DiscLtosure Act.—Section
304(aX(2) of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C.
2803(aX2)) is amended by inserting at the end the following new
sentence: ‘For purposes of this paragraph, other lending institutions
shall be deemed to have a home office or branch office within a
primary metropolitan statistical area, metropolitan statistical area,
or consolidated metropolitan statistical area that is not comprised of
designated primary metropolitan statistical areas if such institu-
tions have originated or purchased or received completed applica-
tions for at least 5 mortgage loans in such area in the preceding
calendar year.’

(g) AMENDMENT TO ENFORCEMENT Provisions.—Section 8305(b) of
the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2804(b)) is
amended—

(1) by striking out “and” at the end of perce (2);

(2) by striking out the period at the end o paragraph (3) and
inserting in lieu thereof “; and”; and

(3) by adding at the end ‘the following new paragraph:

“(4) other lending institutions, by the Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development.”

(h) Report on Uturry or Data.—Section 308 of the Home Mort-
gore Di Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2807) is amended to read as

“SEC. 308. REPORT.

“The Board, in consultation with the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development, shall report annually to the Congress on the
wniity.¢ of the requirements of section 304(b)\(4).”.

(i) CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO FORMAT REQUIREMENT. —Section
304(e) of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C.
2803(e)) is amended by striking out “The Board” and inserting in
lieu thereof “Subject ‘a subsection (h), the Board”’.

j) EXEMPTION FROM CERTAIN DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.—Section
304 of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2803) is
amended by inserting after subsection (h) (as added by subsection (b)
of this section) the following new subsection:

“(j) Exemption From CrerTAIn DiscLosuRE REQUIREMENTS.—The
requirements of subsection (b)(4) shall not apply with res to any
depository institution described in section 303(2(A) which has total
assets, as of the most recent full fiscal year of such institution, of
$30, 000, 000 or less.”

(k) Errective Date.—The amendments made by this section shall
apply to each calendar year beginning after December 31, 1989.

SEC. 1212. AMENDMENT TO THE COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT OF 1977.

(a) CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO DEFINITION OF REGULATED FINAN-
CIAL INstTITUTION.—Section 803(2) of the Community Reinvestment
Act of 1977 (12 U.S.C. 2902(2)) is amended by striking out “insured
bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 527

an insured institution as defined in section 401 of the National
Housing Act” and inserting in lieu thereof “insured depository
ee (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act)’.

(b) EXAMINATION IMPROVEMENT.—The Community Reinvestment
Act of 1977 (12 U.S.C. 2901 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
the following new section:

“SEC. 807. WRITTEN EVALUATIONS. 12 USC 2906.

“(a) UIRED.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Upon the conclusion of each examination Disadvantaged
of an insured depository institution under section 804, the Persons.
pc aco Federal depository institutions regulatory agency

prepare a written evaluation of the institution’s record of
meeting the credit needs of its entire community, including low-
and moderate-income neighborhoods.

“(2) PuBLIC AND CONFIDENTIAL SECTIONS.—Each written
evaluation required under paragraph (1) shall have a public
section and a confidential section.

“(b) Pustic Section or Report.—

“(1) FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS.—The public section of the
written evaluation shall—

“(A) state the appropriate Federal depository institutions
regulatory agency's conclusions for assessment factor
identified in the regulations prescribed by the Federal
ee institutions regulatory agencies to implement

ct;
“(B) discuss the facts supporting such conclusions; and
“(C) contain the institution’s rating and a statement
describing the basis for the rating.
“(2) ASSIGNED RATING.—The institution’s rating referred to in
paragraph (1XC) shall be 1 of the following:
“(A) ‘Outstanding record of meeting community credit

needs’.
“B) ‘Satisfactory record of meeting community credit
n A
“(C) ‘Needs to improve record of meeting community
credit needs’.
“(D) ‘Substantial noncompliance in meeting community
credit needs’.
— ratings shall be disclosed to the public on and after July 1,

“(c) CONFIDENTIAL SECTION OF REPORT.—
(1) Privacy OF NAMED INDIVIDUALS.—The confidential sec-
tion of the written evaluation shall contain all references that
identify any customer of the institution, any employee or officer

of the institution, or any or ee that has pro-
vided information in confidence to a Federal or State depository
institutions regulatory agency.

“(2) Topics NOT SUITABLE FOR DISCLOSURE.—The confidential
section shall also contain any statements obtained or made by
the appropriate Federal depository institutions regulatory

ncy in the course of an examination which, in the judgment
of the agency, are too sensitive or speculative in nature to
disclose to the institution or the public.

“(3) DiscLOSURE TO DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION.—The confidential
section may be disclosed, in whole or part, to the institution, if
103 STAT. 528

12 USC 18338c.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

the appropriate Federal depository institutions regulatory
agency determines that such disclosure will promote the objec-
tives of this Act. However, disclosure under this paragraph shall
not identify a person or organization that has provided informa-
tion in confidence to a Federal or State depository institutions
regulatory agency.”.

SEC. 1213. COMPTROLLER GENERAL AUDIT AND ACCESS TO RECORDS.

(a) Auprr oF AGENCIES OR OTHER PERSONS PERFORMING FUNCTIONS
UnpvER BANKING LAws.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), all
agencies, corporations, organizations, and other persons of any
description which perform any function or activity under this
Act, or any other Act which is amended by this Act, shall be
subject to audit by the Comptroller General of the United States
with respect to such function or activity.

(2) Exceprions.—Paragraph (1) shall not apply to—

(A) any function or activity of the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System or the Federal Reserve banks
that is described in any paragraph of section 714(b) of title
31, United States Code; and

(B) any function or activity of the Federal National Mort-

age Association, except as provided in section 309(j) of the
Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act.

(b) Auprr or Persons Provipinc Certary Goons or SERVICES.—
All persons and organizations which, by contract, grant, or other-

wise, provide goods or services to, or receive financial assistance

from, any agency or other person performing functions or activities
under this Act shall be subject to audit by the Comptroller General
with respect to such provision of goods or services or receipt of
financial assistance.

(c) Provisions APPLICABLE TO Aupits UNDER THis SECTION.—

(1) NATURE AND SCOPE OF AUDIT.—The Comptroller General
shall determine the nature, scope, and terms and conditions of
audits conducted under this section.

(2) COORDINATION WITH OTHER PROVISIONS OF LAW.—The
authority of the Comptroller General under this section shall be
in addition to any audit authority available to the Comptroller
General under other provisions of this Act or any other law.

(3) RIGHTS OF ACCESS, EXAMINATION, AND COPYING.—The
Comptroller General, and any duly authorized representative of
the Comptroller General, shall have access to, and the right to
examine and copy, all records and other recorded information in
any form, and to examine any property, within the possession or
control of any agency or person which is subject to audit under
this section which the Comptroller General deems relevant to
an audit conducted under this section.

(4) ENFORCEMENT OF RIGHT OF ACCESS.—The Comptroller Gen-
eral’s right of access to information under this section shall be
enforceable pursuant to section 716 of title 31, United States
Code.

(5) MAINTENANCE OF CONFIDENTIAL RECORDS.—The provisions
of section 716(e) of title 31, United States Code, shall apply to
information obtained by the Comptroller General under this
section.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 529

SEC. 1214. AMENDMENT RELATED TO THE HART-SCOTT-RODINO ACT.

Section TA(c) of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 18a(c)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (7), by inserting “section 10(e) of the Home
Owners’ Loan Act,” after “transactions which require agency
approval under”; and
(2) in paragraph (8), by striking out “, section 403 or 408(e) of
the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1726 and 1730a),”.

SEC. 1215. CAPITAL AND ACCOUNTING STANDARDS. 12 USC 1833d.

Before the end of the 1-year period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act, each appropriate Federal banking agency (as
defined in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) shall
establish uniform accounting standards to be used for determining
the capital ratios of all federally insured depository institutions and
for other regulatory purposes. Each such agency shall report an- Reports.
nually to the Chairman and ing minority member of the
Committee on ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate
and the Chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee
on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representa-
tives any differences between the capital standard used by such
agency and capital standards used by any other such agency. Each Federal
such report shall contain an explanation of the reasons for any ee:
discrepancy in such capital standards, and shall be published in the PU?'#40"-
Federal Register.

SEC. 1216. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY. 12 USC 1833e.

(a) In GENERAL.—For purposes of this Act, Executive Order Num-
bered 11478, providing for equal employment opportunity in the
Federal Government, s apply to—

(1) the Comptroller of the Currency;
(2) the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision;

(8) the Federal home loan banks;
(4) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
6) the Oversight of the Resolution Trust Corporation;

an
(6) the Resolution Trust Corporation.

(b) AFFIRMATIVE PROGRAM FOR Equat EMPLOYMENT OpPpoR-
TUNITY.—For purposes of this Act, sections 1 and 2 of Executive
Order Numbered 11478, providing for the ai gpm and implementa-
tion of equal employment dice . wl to the Federal

e

National Mortgage Association and ome Loan Mort-
Corporation.
c) SouicrraTion or Contracts.—The Federal Deposit Insurance Regulations.
Corporation, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Di r of the Minorities.

Office of Thrift Supervision, the Federal Housing Finance Board, “°™*"
the Oversight Board of the Resolution Trust Corporation, and the
Resolution Trust Corporation shall each ceuaceibe regulations to
establish and oversee a minority outreach program within each such
agency to ensure inclusion, to the maximum extent possible, of
minorities and women, and entities owned by minorities and
women, including financial institutions, investment banking firms,
underwriters, accountants, and providers of legal services, in all
contracts entered into by the agency with such persons or entities,
public and private, in order to manage the institutions and their
assets for which the agency is responsible or to perform such other
functions authorized under any law applicable to such agency.
103 STAT. 530 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(d) Report to ConGcress.—Before the end of the 180-day period
beginning on the date of the enactment of the Financial Institutions
Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989—

(1) the F eral Deposit Insurance Corporation;

(2) the Comptroller of the Currency;

(3) the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision;

(4) the Federal Housing Finance Board;

(5) the Oversight Board of the Resolution Trust Corporation;

(6) the Resolution Trust Corporation;

(7) the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation; and

(8) the Federal National Mortgage Association,
shall each submit to the Congress a report containing 2 complete
description of the actions taken by such agency pursuant to su abe.
tions (a) and (b) and such recommendations for administrative and
legislative action as each such agency may determine to be appro-
priate to carry out the purposes of such subsection.

SEC. 1217. NCUA POWERS AS LIQUIDATING AGENT AND CONSERVATOR.

(a) In GENERAL.—Section 207 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12
U.S.C. 1787) is amended—

(1) in subsection (a), by striking paragraph (2) and by re-
designating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2);

(2) by striking subsections (d) and (j);

(3) by redesignating subsections (b), (c), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) as
subsections (j), (k), (1), (m), (n), (0), and (p), respectively;

(4) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsec-
tions:

“(b) Powers AND DutiEs oF BoarD AS CONSERVATOR OR LIQUIDAT-
ING AGENT.—

“(1) RULEMAKING AUTHORITY OF BOARD.—The Board may pre-
scribe such regulations as the Board determines to be appro-
priate regarding the conduct of the Board as conservator or
liquidating agent.

(2) GENERAL POWERS.—

“(A) SUCCESSOR TO CREDIT UNION.—The Board shall, as
conservator. or liquidating agent, and by operation of law,
succeed to—

“(i) all rights, titles, powers, and privileges of the
credit union, and of any member, accountholder, offi-
cer, or director of such credit union with respect to the
credit union and the assets of the credit union; and

“(ii) title to the books, records, and assets of any
previous conservator or other legal custodian of such
credit union.

“(B) OPERATE THE CREDIT UNION.—The Board may, as
conservator or liquidating agent—

“(i) take over the assets of and operate the credit
union with all the powers of the members or sharehold-
ers, the directors, and the officers of the credit union
and shall be authorized to conduct all business of the
credit union;

“(ii) collect all obligations and money due the credit
union;

“(iii) perform all functions of the credit union in the
name of the credit union which is consistent with the
appointment as conservator or liquidating agent; and
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 531

“(iv) preserve and conserve the assets and property of
such credit union.

“(C) FUNCTIONS OF CREDIT UNION’S OFFICERS, DIRECTORS,
AND SHAREHOLDERS.—The Board may, oo or
order, provide for the exercise of an ction by any
member or stockholder, director, or officer of any credit
union for which the Board has been appointed conservator
or liquidating agent.

“(D) PowERs AS CONSERVATOR.—The Board may, as con-
servator, take such action as may be—

“(i) necessary to put the credit union in a sound and
solvent condition; and

“(ii) appropriate to carry on the business of the credit
union and preserve and conserve the assets and prop-
erty of the credit union.

“(E) ADDITIONAL POWERS AS LIQUIDATING AGENT.—The
Board may, as liquidating agent, place the credit union in
liquidation and proceed to realize upon the assets of the
credit union, having due regard to the conditions of credit
in the locality.

“(F) PAYMENT OF VALID OBLIGATIONS.—The Board, as con-
servator or liquidating agent, shall pay all valid obligations
of the credit union in accordance with the prescriptions and
limitations of this Act.

“(G) INCIDENTAL POWERS.—The Board may, as conserva-
tor or liquidating agent—

“() exercise all powers and authorities specifically
granted to conservators or liquidating agents, respec-
tively, under this Act and such incidental powers as
shali be necessary to carry out such powers; and

“(ii) take any action authorized by this Act,

which the Board determines is in the interests of the
credit union, its account holders, or the Board.
“(3) AUTHORITY OF LIQUIDATING AGENT TO DETERMINE

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Board may, as liquidating agent,
determine claims in accordance with the requirements of
this subsection and regulations prescribed under para-
graph (4).

“(B) NoticE REQUIREMENTS.—The liquidating agent, in
any case involving the liquidation or winding up of the

airs of a closed credit union, shall—

“(i) promptly publish a notice to the credit union’s
creditors to present their claims, together with proof, to
the liquidating agent by a date specified in the notice
which shall be not less than 90 days after the publica-
tion of such notice; and

“Gii) republish such notice approximately 1 month
and 2 months, respectively, after the publication under
clause (i).

“(C) MAILING REQUIRED.—The liquidating agent shall
mail a notice similar to the notice published under subpara-
graph (B\i) at the time of such publication to any creditor
shown on the credit union’s books—

mi at the creditor’s last address appearing in such
;or
103 STAT. 5382

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(ii) upon discovery of the name and address of a
claimant not appearing on the credit union’s books
within 30 days after the discovery of such name and
address.

“(4) RULEMAKING AUTHORITY RELATING TO DETERMINATION OF
cLAIMs.—The Board may prescribe regulations regarding the
allowance or disallowance of claims by the liquidating agent
and providing for administrative determination of claims and
review of such determination.

“(5) PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINATION OF CLAIMS.—

“(A) DETERMINATION PERIOD.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Before the end of the 180-day
period beginning on the date any claim against a credit
union is filed with the Board as liquidating agent, the
Board shall determine whether to allow or disallow the
claim and shall notify the claimant of any determina-
tion with respect to such claim.

“(ii) EXTENSION OF TIME.—The period described in
clause (i) may be extended by a written agreement
between the claimant and the Board.

“(iii) MAILING OF NOTICE SUFFICIENT.—The require-
ments of clause (i) shall be deemed to be satisfied if the
notice of any determination with respect to any claim
is mailed to the last address of the claimant which
appears—

“(T) on the credit union’s books;

“(ID in the claim filed by the claimant; or

“(ID in documents submitted in proof of the
claim.

“(iv) CONTENTS OF NOTICE OF DISALLOWANCE.—If any
claim filed under clause (i) is disallowed, the notice to
the claimant shall contain—

“(I) a statement of each reason for the disallow-
ance; and

“(II) the procedures available for obtaining
agency review of the determination to disallow the
claim or judicial determination of the claim.

“(B) ALLOWANCE OF PROVEN CLAIMS.—The liquidating
agent shall allow any claim received on or before the date
specified in the notice published under paragraph (3)(B)i)
by the liquidating agent from any claimant which is proved
to the satisfaction of the liquidating agent.

“(C) DISALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS FILED AFTER END OF FILING
PERIOD.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in clause (ii),
claims filed after the date specified in the notice pub-
lished under paragraph (3)(B\i) shall be disallowed and
such disallowance shall be final.

“(ji) CERTAIN EXCEPTIONS.—Clause (i) shall not apply
with respect to any claim filed by any claimant after
the date specified in the notice published under para-
graph (3\(B)i) and such claim may be considered by the
liquidating agent if—

“(I) the claimant did not receive notice of the
appointment of the liquidating agent in time to file
such claim before such date; and
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 533

“(ID such claim is filed in time to permit pay-
ment of such claim.

“(D) AUTHORITY TO DISALLOW CLAIMS.—The liquidating
agent may disallow any portion of any claim by a creditor
or claim of security, preference, or priority which is not
proved to the satisfaction of the liquidating agent.

“(E) No JUDICIAL REVIEW OF DETERMINATION PURSUANT TO
SUBPARAGRAPH (D).—No court may review the Board’s
determination pursuant to subparagraph (D) to disallow a

“(F) LEGAL EFFECT OF FILING.—

“(i) STATUTE OF LIMITATION TOLLED.—For purposes of
any applicable statute of limitations, the filing of a
claim with the liquidating agent shall constitute a
commencement of an action.

“(ii) NO PREJUDICE TO OTHER ACTIONS.—Subject to
paragraph (12), the filing of a claim with the liquidat-
ing agent shall not prejudice any right of the claimant
to continue any action which was filed before the
appointment of the liquidating agent.

“(6) PROVISION FOR AGENCY REVIEW OR JUDICIAL DETERMINA-
TION OF CLAIMS.—
“(A) IN GENERAL.—Before the end of the 60-day period

beginnine on the earlier of—

“(i) the end of the period described in paragraph
(5X AG) with respect to any claim against a credit union
for which the Board is liquidating agent; or

“(ii) the date of any notice of disallowance of such
claim pursuant to paragraph (5\A\i),
the claimant may request inistrative review of the
claim in accordance with subparagraph (A) or (B) of para-
graph (7) or file suit on such claim (or continue an action
commenced before the appointment of the gas
agent) in the district or territorial court of the Uni
States for the district within which the credit union’s prin-
cipal place of business is located or the United States
District Court for the District of Columbia (and such court
shall have jurisdiction to hear such claim).

“(B) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—If any claimant fails to—

“(i) request administrative review of any claim in
— with subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph
; or

“(ii) file suit on such claim (or continue an action
oer before the appointment of the liquidating

agent),
before the end of the 60-day period described in subpara-
graph (A), the claim shall be deemed to be disallowed (other
than any portion of such claim which was allowed by the
peeling agent) as of the end of such period, such dis-
owance shall be final, and the claimant shall have no
further rights or remedies with respect to such claim.

“(7) REVIEW OF CLAIMS.—

“(A) ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.—If any claimant requests
review under this subparagraph in lieu of filing or continu-
ing any action under paragraph (6) and the Board agrees to
such request, the Board shall consider the claim after
opportunity for a hearing on the record. The final deter-
103 STAT. 534 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

mination of the Board with respect to such claim shall be
subject to judicial review under chapter 7 of title 5, United
States Code.

“(B) OTHER REVIEW PROCEDURES.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall also establish such
alternative dispute resolution processes as may be
appropriate for the resolution of claims filed under
paragraph (5)(A\i).

“(ii) .—In establishing alternative dispute
resolution processes, the Board shall strive for proce-
dures which are expeditious, fair, independent, and low
cost.

“(iii) VOLUNTARY BINDING OR NONBINDING PROCE-
DURES.—The Board may establish both binding and
nonbinding processes, which may be conducted by any
government or private p , but all parties, including
the claimant and the , must agree to the use of
the process in a particular case.

“(iv) CONSIDERATION OF INCENTIVES.—The Board shall
seek to develop incentives for claimants to participate
in the alternative dispute resolution process.

“(8) EXPEDITED DETERMINATION OF CLAIMS.—

“(A) ESTABLISHMENT REQUIRED.—The Board shall estab-
lish a procedure for e ited relief outside of the routine
claims process established under paragraph (5) for claim-
ants who—

“(i) allege the existence of legally valid and enforce-
able or perfected security interests in assets of any
credit union for which the Board has been appointed
iquidating agent; and

‘Gii) allege that irreparable injury will occur if the
routine claims procedure is followed.

“(B) DETERMINATION PERIOD.—Before the end of the 90-
day period beginning on the date any claim is filed in
accordance with the procedures established pursuant to
subparagraph (A), the Board shall—

“(i) determine—

“(l) whether to allow or disallow such claim; or

“(I whether such claim should be determined
pursuant to the procedures established pursuant to
paragraph (5); or

“(ii) notify the claimant of the determination, and if
the claim is disallowed, a statement of each reason for
the disallowance and the procedure for obtaining
agency review or judicial determination.

“(C) PERIOD FOR FILING OR RENEWING suIT.—Any claimant
who files a request for expedited relief shall be permitted to
file a suit, or to continue a suit filed before the appointment
of the liquidating agent, seeking a determination of the
claimant’s > with respect to such security interest after
the earlier of—

“(i) the end of the 90-day period beginning on the
date of the filing of a ae oe for expedited relief; or

“(ii) the date the Board denies the claim.

“(D) SraTuTE OF LimrraTiIOoNs.—If an action described in
sub ph (C) is not filed, or the motion to renew a
previously filed suit is not made, before the end of the
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 535

30-day period beginning on the date on which such action or
motion may be filed in accordance with subparagraph (B),
the claim shall be deemed to be disallowed as of the end of
such period (other than any portion of such claim which
was allowed by the liquidating agent), such disallowance
shall be final, and the claimant shall have no further rights
or remedies with respect to such claim.

“(E) LEGAL EFFECT OF FILING.—

“(j) STATUTE OF LIMITATION TOLLED.—For purposes of
any applicable statute of limitations, the filing of a
claim with the liquidating agent shall constitute a
commencement of an action.

“(ii) NO PREJUDICE TO OTHER ACTIONS.—Subject to
paragraph (12), the filing of a claim with the liquidat-
ing agent shall not prejudice any right of the claimant
to continue any action which was filed before the
appointment of the liquidating agent.

“(9) AGREEMENT AS BASIS OF CLAIM.—

Bes ete ene ee cee = provided a subpara-
grap , any agreement which does not meet the require-
ments set forth in section 208(aX3) shall not form the basis
of, or substantially comprise, a claim against the liquidat-
ing agent or the Board.

“(B) EXcEPTION TO CONTEMPORANEOUS EXECUTION
REQUIREMENT.—Notwithstanding section 208(aX3), any
agreement between a Federal home loan bank or Federal
Reserve bank and any insured credit union which was
executed before the extension of credit by such bank to such
credit union shall be treated as having been executed
seagate tad with such extension of credit for pur-

of subparagraph (A).
“(10) PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The liquidating agent may, in the
liquidating agent’s discretion and to the extent funds are
available, pay creditor claims which are allowed by the
liquidating agent, approved by the Board pursuant to a
final determination pursuant to paragraph (7) or (8), or
determined by the final judgment of any court of competent
jurisdiction in such manner and amounts as are authorized
under this Act.

“(B) PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS ON CLAIMS.—The liquidating
agent may, in the liquidating agent’s sole discretion, pay
dividends on proved claims at any time, and no liability
shall attach to the Board (in such ’s corporate capac-
ity or as liquidating agent), by reason of any such payment,
for failure to pay dividends to a claimant whose claim is not
— at the time of any such payment.

“(11) DistrIBUTION OF ASSETS.—

“(A) SuBROGATED CLAIMS; CLAIMS OF UNINSURED
ACCOUNTHOLDERS AND OTHER CREDITORS.—The liquidating
agent shall—

“(j) retain for the account of the Board such portion
of the amounts realized from any liquidation as the
Board may be entitled to receive in connection with the
subrogation of the claims of accountholders; and

“(ii) pay to accountholders and other creditors the
net amounts available for distribution to them.
103 STAT. 536

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(B) DISTRIBUTION TO SHAREHOLDERS OF AMOUNTS REMAIN-
ING AFTER PAYMENT OF ALL OTHER CLAIMS AND EXPENSES.—
In any case in which funds remain after all account-
holders, creditors, other claimants, and administrative ex-

nses are paid, the liquidating agent shall distribute such

ds to the credit union’s shareholders or members to-
gether with the accounting report required under para-
graph (14\C).

“(12) SUSPENSION OF LEGAL ACTIONS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—After the appointment of a conserva-
tor or liquidating po i for an insured credit union, the
conservator or liquidating agent may request a stay for a
period not to exceed—

“(i) 45 days, in the case of any conservator; and

“(ii) 90 days, in the case of any liquidating agent,
in any judicial action or proceeding to which such credit
union is or becomes a party.

“(B) GRANT OF STAY BY ALL COURTS REQUIRED.—Upon
receipt of a request by any conservator or liquidating agent
pursuant to subparagraph (A) for a stay of any judicial
action or proceeding in any court with jurisdiction of such
action or proceeding, the court shall grant such stay as to
all parties

(13) ADDITIONAL RIGHTS AND DUTIES.—

“(A) PRIOR FINAL ADJUDICATION.—The Board shall abide
by any final unappealable judgment of any court of com-
petent jurisdiction which was rendered before the appoint-
ment of the Board as conservator or liquidating agent.

“(B) RIGHTS AND REMEDIES OF CONSERVATOR OR LIQUIDAT-
ING AGENT.—In the event of any appealable judgment, the
Board as conservator or liquidating agent shail

“(i) have all the rights and remedies available to the
credit union (before the appointment of such conserva-
tor or liquidating agent) and the Board in its corporate
capacity, including removal to Federal court and all
appellate rights; and

“(ii) not be required to post any bond in order to

ursue such remedies.

“(C) No ATTACHMENT OR EXECUTION.—No attachment or
execution may issue by any court upon assets in the posses-

sion of the liquidating agent.

“(D) LIMITATION ON JUDICIAL REVIEW.—Except as other-
wise provided in this subsection, no court have juris-
diction over—

“(i) any claim or action for payment from, or any
action seeking a determination of rights with respect
to, the assets of any credit union for which the Board
has been appointed liquidating agent, including assets
which the rd may acquire from itself as such liq-
uidating agent; or

“(ii) any claim relating to any act or omission of such
credit union or the Board as liquidating agent.

(14) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS FOR ACTIONS BROUGHT BY CON-
SERVATOR OR LIQUIDATING AGENT.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any provision of any
contract, the applicable statute of limitations with regard to
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 537

any action brought by the Board as conservator or liquidat-
ing agent shall be—
“(j) in the case of any contract claim, the longer of—
“(I) the 6-year period beginning on the date the
claim accrues; or
“(ID the period applicable under State law; and
“(ii) in the case of any tort claim, the longer of—
“(I) the 3-year period beginning on the date the
claim accrues; or
“(ID the period applicable under State law.

“(B) DETERMINATION OF THE DATE ON WHICH A CLAIM
ACCRUES.—For purposes of subparagraph (A), the date on
which the statute of limitation begins to run on any claim
described in such subparagraph shall be the later of—

“(i) the date of the appointment of the Board as
conservator or liquidating t; or
“(ii) the date on which the cause of action accrues.

“(15) ACCOUNTING AND RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Board as conservator or liquidat-
ing agent shall, consistent with the accounting and report-
ing practices and procedures established by the Board,
maintain a full accounting of each conservatorship and
liquidation or other disposition of credit unions in default.

‘(B) ANNUAL ACCOUNTING OR REPORT.—With respect to
each conservatorship or liquidation to which the Board was
appointed, the Board make an annual accounting or
report, as appropriate, available to the Comptroller General
of the United States or, in the case of a State-chartered
credit union, the authority which appointed the Board as
conservator or liquidating agent.

“(C) AVAILABILITY OF REPORTS.—Any report prepared
pursuant to subparagraph (B) shall be made available by
the Board upon request to any shareholder of the credit
union for which the Board was appointed conservator or

liquidating agent or any other member of the public.

‘(D) RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENT.—After the end of the
6-year period beginning on the date the Board is appointed
as liquidating agent of an insured credit union, the Board
may destroy any records of such credit union which the
Board, in the Board’s discretion, determines to be unneces-

unless directed not to do so by a court of competent

jurisdiction or governmental agency, or prohibited by law.

“(c) Provisions RELATING TO CoNnTRACTS ENTERED INTO BEFORE
APPOINTMENT OF CONSERVATOR OR LIQUIDATING AGENT.—

“(1) AUTHORITY TO REPUDIATE CONTRACTS.—In addition to any
other rights a conservator or liquidating agent may have, the
conservator or liquidating agent for any insured credit union
may disaffirm or repudiate any contract or lease—

“(A) to which such credit union is a party;

“(B) the performance of which the conservator or lig-
uidating agent, in the conservator’s or liquidating agent’s
discretion, determines to be burdensome; and

“(C) the disaffirmance or repudiation of which the con-
servator or a arte agent determines, in the conserva-
tor’s or liquidating agent’s discretion, will promote the
orderly administration of the credit union’s affairs.
103 STAT. 538

PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989

(2) TIMING OF REPUDIATION.—The conservator or liquidating
agent appointed for any insured credit union shall determine
whether or not to exercise the rights of repudiation under this
subsection within a reasonable period following such appoint-
ment.

“(3) CLAIMS FOR DAMAGES FOR REPUDIATION. —

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided in
subparagraph (C) and paragraphs (4), (5), and (6), the liabil-
ity of the conservator or liquidating agent for the
disaffirmance or repudiation of any contract pursuant to
paragraph (1) shall be—

» limited to actual direct compensatory damages;
an

“(ii) determined as of—

“(I) the date of the appointment of the conserva-
tor or liquidating agent; or
“() in the case of any contract or agreement
referred to in paragraph (8), the date of the
irmance or repudiation of such contract or
agreement.

“(B) No LIABILITY FOR OTHER DAMAGES.—For purposes of
subparagraph (A), the term ‘actual direct compensatory
damages’ does not include—

“(j) punitive or exemplary damages;

“(ii) damages for lost profits or opportunity; or

“(iii) damages for pain and suffering.

“(C) MEASURE OF DAMAGES FOR REPUDIATION OF FINANCIAL
CONTRACTS.—In the case of any qualified financial contract
or agreement to which paragraph (8) applies, compensatory
damages shall be—

“(i) deemed to include normal and reasonable costs of
cover or other reasonable measures of damages utilized
in the industries for such contract and agreement
claims; and

“(ii) paid in accordance with this subsection and
subsection (f) except as otherwise specifically provided
in this section.

“(4) LEASES UNDER WHICH THE CREDIT UNION IS THE LESSEE.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If the conservator or liquidating agent
disaffirms or repudiates a lease under which the credit
union was the lessee, the conservator or liquidating agent
shall not be liable for any damages (other than damages
determined pursuant to subparagraph (B)) for the
disaffirmance or repudiation of such lease.

“(B) PAYMENTS OF RENT.—Notwithstanding subparagraph
(A), the lessor under a lease to which such subparagraph
applies shall—

“(i) be entitled to the contractual rent accruing
before the later of the date—

*“T) the notice of disaffirmance or repudiation is
mailed; or
“(I) the disaffirmance or repudiation becomes
effective,
unless the lessor is in default or breach of the terms of
the lease;

“(ii) have no claim for damages under any accelera-

tion clause or other penalty provision in the lease; an
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 539

“(ii) have a claim for any unpaid rent, subject to all
appropriate offsets and defenses, due as of the date of
the appointment which shall be paid in accordance
with this subsection and subsection (b).

“(5) LEASES UNDER WHICH THE CREDIT UNION IS THE LESSOR.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If the conservator or liquidating agent Real property.
repudiates an a written lease of real property of
the credit union under which the credit union is the lessor
and the lessee is not, as of the date of such repudiation, in
default, the lessee under such lease may either—

“@) treat the lease as terminated by such repudi-
ation; or

“(ii) remain in possession of the leasehold interest for
the balance of the term of the lease unless the lessee
defaults under the terms of the lease after the date of
such repudiation.

“(B) PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO LESSEE REMAINING IN
POSSESSION.—If any lessee under a lease described in
subparagraph (A) remains in possession of a leasehold in-
terest pursuant to clause (ii) of such subparagraph—

‘(i) the lessee—

“(I) shall continue to pay the contractual rent
pursuant to the terms of the lease after the date of
the repudiation of such lease;

“() may offset against any rent payment which
accrues r the date of the repudiation of the
lease, any damages which accrue after such date
due to the nonperformance of any obligation of the
credit union under the lease after such date; and

me a ong poli or liquidating agent ape not be
iable to the lessee for any damages arising r suc
date as a result of the repudiation other than the
amount of any offset allowed under clause (iXID).

“(6) CONTRACTS FOR THE SALE OF REAL PROPERTY.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If the conservator or liquidating agent
repudiates any contract (which meets the requirements of
each paragraph of section 208(a\(3)) for the sale of real
property and the purchaser of such real property under
such contract is in possession and is not, as of the date of
such repudiation, in default, such purchaser may either—

‘(@) treat the contract as terminated by such repudi-
ation; or

“(ii) remain in possession of such real property.

“(B) PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO PURCHASER REMAINING IN
POSSESSION.—If any purchaser of real property under any
contract described in subparagraph (A) remains in posses-
sion of such property pursuant to clause (ii) of such
subparagraph—

“(i) the purchaser—

“(I) shall continue to make all payments due
under the contract after the date of the repudi-
ation of the contract; and

“(II) may offset against any such payments any
damages which accrue after such date due to the
nonperformance (after such date) of any obligation
of the credit union under the contract; and

(ii) the conservator or liquidating agent shall—
103 STAT. 540

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(1 not be liable to the purchaser for any dam-
ages arising after such date as a result of the
repudiation other than the amount of any offset
allowed under clause (iI);

“(IID deliver title to the purchaser in accordance
with the provisions of the contract; and

“(III) have no obligation under the contract other
oe the performance required under subclause

“(C) ASSIGNMENT AND SALE ALLOWED.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—No provision of this paragraph
shall be construed as limiting the right of the conserva-
tor or liquidating agent to assign the contract described
in anaes (A) and sell the property subject to the
contract and the provisions of this paragraph.

“(ii) NO LIABILITY AFTER ASSIGNMENT AND SALE.—If an
assignment and sale described in clause (i) is con-
summated, the conservator or liquidating agent shall
have no further liability under the contract described
in subparagraph (A) or with respect to the real prop-
erty which was the subject of such contract.

(7) PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO SERVICE CONTRACTS.—

“(A) SERVICES PERFORMED BEFORE APPOINTMENT.—In the
case of any contract for services between any person and
any insured credit union for which the Board has been
appointed conservator or liquidating agent, any claim of
such person for services performed before the appointment
of the conservator or the liquidating agent shall be—

ie : claim to be paid in accordance with subsection
); an
“(ii) deemed to have arisen as of the date the con-
servator or liquidating agent was appointed.

“(B) SERVICES PERFORMED AFTER APPOINTMENT AND PRIOR
TO REPUDIATION.—TIf, in the case of any contract for services
described in subparagraph (A), the conservator or liquidat-
ing agent accepts performance by the other person before
the conservator or liquidating agent makes any determina-
tion to exercise the right of repudiation of such contract
under this section—

“(i) the other party shall be paid under the terms of
the contract for the services performed; and

“(ii) the amount of such payment shall be treated as
an administrative expense of the conservatorship or
liquidation.

“(C) ACCEPTANCE OF PERFORMANCE NO BAR TO SUBSEQUENT
REPUDIATION.—The acceptance by any conservator or liq-
uidating agent of services refe to in mupperegrarh (B) in
connection with a contract described in such subparagraph
shall not affect the right of the conservator or liquidating
agent to repudiate such contract under this section at any
time after such performance.

*(8) CERTAIN QUALIFIED FINANCIAL CONTRACTS.—

“(A) RIGHTS OF PARTIES TO CONTRACTS.—Subject to para-
graph (12) of this subsection and notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act (other than subsection (bX9) of this
section and section 208(aX3)), any other Federal law, or the
PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989

law of any State, no person shall be stayed or prohibited
from exercising—

“(i) any right to cause the termination or liquidation
of any qualified financial contract with an insured
credit union which arises upon the appointment of the
Board as liquidating agent for such credit union at any
time after such appointment;

“(ii) any right under any ari farenganent relat-
ing to any contract or agreement i in clause (i);

or
“(iii) any right to offset or net out any termination
value, payment amount, or other transfer obligation
arising under or in connection with 1 or more contracts
and agreements described in clause (i), including any
master agreement for such contracts or eements.
(B) APPLICABILITY OF OTHER PROVISIONS.—Subsection
(b\12) shall apply in the case of any judicial action or
proceeding brought against any liquidating agent referred
to in subparagraph (A), or the it union for which such
liquidating agent was appointed, by any y to a contract
or agreement descri in subparagraph (A\i) with such
credit union.
“(C) CERTAIN TRANSFERS NOT AVOIDABLE.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding paragraph (11),
the Board, whether acting as such or as conservator or
liquidating agent of an insured credit union, may not
avoid any transfer of money or other property in
connection with any qualified financial contract with
an insured credit union.

“(ii) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN TRANSFERS.—Clause (i)
shall not apply to any transfer of money or other
property in connection with any qualified financial
contract with an insured credit union if the Board
determines that the transferee had actual intent to
hinder, delay, or defraud such credit union, the credi-
tors of such credit union, or any conservator or liq-
uidating agent appointed for such credit union.

“(D) CERTAIN CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS DEFINED.—For
purposes of this subsection—

“(i) ALIFIED FINANCIAL CONTRACT.—The term
‘qualified financial contract’ means any securities con-
tract, forward contract, repurchase agreement, and any
similar —— that the Board determines by regu-
lation to be a qualified financial contract for purposes

of this pecegeer’.
— ECURITIES CONTRACT.—The term ‘securities con-
tract’ —

“(I) has the meaning given to such term in sec-
tion 741(7) of title 11, United States Code, except
that the term ‘security’ (as used in such section)
shall be deemed to include any mortgage loan, any
mortgage-related security (as defined in section
3(aX41) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934),
and any interest in any mortgage loan or mort-

e-related security; and
(I) does not include any participation in a
commercial mortgage loan unless the deter-

ee

103 STAT. 541
103 STAT. 542 PUBLIC LAW 101-783—AUG. 9, 1989

pt regulation, resolution, or order to include
any such participation within the meaning of such

“Gii) F FoRWARD coNTRACT.—The term ‘forward con-
tract’ has the meaning given to such term in section
101(24) of title 11, United States Code.

“(iv) REPURCHASE AGREEMENT.—The term ‘re-
purchase agreement’—

“(I has the meaning given to such term in sec-
tion 101(41) of title 11, the United States Code,
except that the items (as described in such section)
which may be subject to any such agreement shall
be deemed to include mortgage-related securities
(as such term is defined in section 3(a)(41) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, any mortgage
loan, and any interest in any mortgage loan; and

“) does not include any participation in a
commercial mortgage loan unless the Board deter-
mines Cd regulation, resolution, or order to include
ony | such participation within the meaning of such

“yy a term ‘transfer’ has the meaning
iven to such term in section 101(50) of title 11, United
tates Code.

“(E) CERTAIN PROTECTIONS IN EVENT OF APPOINTMENT OF
CONSERVATOR.—Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Act (other than paragraph (12) of this subsection, subsection
(bX9) of this section, and section 208(a)(3) of this Act), an
other Federal law, or the law of any State, no person ‘shail
be stayed or prohibited from exercising—

“(i) any right such person has to cause the termi-
nation, liquidation, or acceleration of any qualified
financial contract with a credit union in a
conservatorship based upon a default under such finan-
cial contract which is enforceable under applicable
noninsolvency law;

“(i) any right under any security arrangement relat-
ing to such qualified financial contracts; or

‘(iii) any right to offset or net out any termination
values, payment amounts, or other transfer obligations
arising under or in connection with such qualified
financial contracts.

“(9) TRANSFER OF QUALIFIED FINANCIAL CONTRACTS.—In
making any transfer of assets or liabilities of a credit union in
default which includes any qualified financial contract, the
eeevaiae or liquidating agent for such credit union shall
either—

“(A) transfer to 1 credit union (other than a credit union
in default)—

“(i) all qualified financial contracts between—

ew any person or any affiliate of such person;
an
“(IT) the credit union in default;

“(ii) all claims of such person or any affiliate of such
person against such it union under any such con-
tract (other than any claim which, under the terms of
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

any such contract, is subordinated to the claims of

general unsecured creditors of such credit union);

“(iii) all claims of such credit union against such
person or any affiliate of such person under any such
contract; and

“(iv) all property securing any claim described in
clause (ii) or (iii) under any such contract; or

“(B) transfer none of the financial contracts, claims, or
property referred to in subparagraph (A) (with respect to
such person and any affiliate of such person).

“(10) NOTIFICATION OF TRANSFER.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If—

“(i) the conservator or liquidating agent for an in-
sured credit union in default makes any transfer of the
assets and liabilities of such credit union; and

“(ii) the transfer includes any qualified financial con-
tract,

the conservator or liquidating nt shall use such con-
servator’s or liquidating agent’s efforts to notify any
pore who isa = to any such contract of such transfer

y 12:00, noon meal time), on the business day following
such transfer.

“(B) BusINESS DAY DEFINED.—For purposes of this para-
graph, the term ‘business day’ means any day other than
any eg Icey or any day on which either the New
York Stock Exchange or the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York is closed.

“(11) CERTAIN SECURITY INTERESTS NOT AVOIDABLE.—No provi-
sion of this subsection shall be construed as permitting the
avoidance of any legally enforceable or perfected security in-
terest in any of the assets of any credit union except where such
an interest is taken in contemplation of the credit union’s
insolvency or with the intent to hinder, delay, or defraud the
credit union or the creditors of such credit union.

“(12) AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE CONTRACTS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The conservator or liquidating agent
may enforce any contract, other than a director’s or offi-
cers liability insurance contract or a credit union bond,
entered into by the credit union notwithstanding any provi-
sion of the contract providing for termination, default,
acceleration, or exercise of rights upon, or solely by reason
of, insolvency or the appointment of a conservator or liq-
aa,

““B) TAIN RIGHTS NOT AFFECTED.—No provision of this

paragraph may be construed as impairing or affecting any

right of the conservator or liquidating agent to enforce or
recover under a directors or officers liability insurance
contract or credit union bond under other applicable law.
“(13) EXCEPTION FOR FEDERAL RESERVE AND FEDERAL HOME

LOAN BANKS.—No provision of this subsection shall apply with

respect to—

“(A) any extension of credit from any Federal home loan
bank or Federal Reserve bank to any insured depository
institution; or

“(B) any security interest in the assets of the institution
securing any such extension of credit.

“(d) PAYMENT OF INSURED Deposits.—

103 STAT. 543
103 STAT. 544

Courts, U.S.
District of
Columbia.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

“(1) IN GENERAL.—In case of the liquidation of any insured
credit union, payment of the insured deposits in such credit
union shall be made by the Board as soon as possible, subject to
the provisions of subsection (e) of this section, either by cash or
by making available to each accountholder a transferred deposit
in a new credit union in the same community or in another
insured credit union in an amount equal to the insured deposit
of such accountholder.

“(2) Proor or ciaims.—The Board, in its discretion, may
require proof of claims to be filed and may approve or reject
such claims for insured deposits.

“(3) RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES.—

“(A) RESOLUTIONS IN ACCORDANCE TO BOARD REGULA-
TIONS.—In the case of any disputed claim relating to any
insured deposit or any determination of insurance coverage
with respect to any deposit, the Board may resolve such
disputed claim in acco ce with regulations prescribed by
the Board establishing procedures for resolving such claims.

“(B) ADJUDICATION OF CLAIMS.—If the Board has not pre-
scribed ations establishing procedures for resolving
disputed claims, the Board may require the final deter-
mination of a court of competent jurisdiction before paying
any such claim.

(4) EW OF BOARD’S DETERMINATION.—Final determination
made by the Board shall be reviewable in accordance with
chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code, by the United States
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia or the court of
appeals for the Federal judicial circuit where the principal place
of business of the credit union is located.

“(5) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—Any request for review of a
final determination by the Board shall be filed with the appro-
priate circuit court ot spoon not later than 60 days after such
determination is ordered.

“(e) SUBROGATION OF BOARD.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
Federal law, the law of any State, or the constitution of any
State, the Board, upon the payment to any accountholder as
provided in subsection (d) in connection with any insured credit
union described in such subsection or the assumption of any
deposit in such credit union by another insured credit union
pursuant to this section, shall be subrogated to all rights of the
accountholder against such credit union to the extent of such
payment or assumption.

‘(2) DrivIDENDS ON SUBROGATED AMOUNTS.—The subrogation of
the Board under paragraph (1) with respect to any insured
credit union shall include the right on the part of the Board to
receive the same dividends from the proceeds of the assets of
such credit union as would have been payable to the
accountholder on a claim for the insured deposit, but such
accountholder shall retain such claim for any uninsured or
unassumed portion of the deposit.

“(f) VALUATION OF CLAIMS IN DEFAULT.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
Federal law or the law of any State, this subsection shall govern
the rights of the creditors (other than insured accountholders) of
such credit union.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 545

(2) MAXIMUM LIABILITY.—The maximum liability of the
Board, acting as liquidating agent or in any other capacity, to
any person having a claim against the liquidating agent or the
insured credit union for which such liquidating agent is ap-
pointed shall equal the amount such claimant would have
received if the Board had liquidated the assets and liabilities of
such credit union without exercising the Board’s authority
under subsection (n) of this section.

“(3) ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS AUTHORIZED.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Board rag 6 in its discretion and
in the interests of minimizing its losses, use its own re-
sources to make additional payments or credit additional
amounts to or with respect to or for the account of any
claimant or category of claimants. The Board shall not be
obligated, as a result of having made any such payment or
credited any such amount to or with respect to or for the
account of any claimant or category of claimants, to make
payments to any other claimant or category or claimants.

‘(B) MANNER OF PAYMENT.—The Board may make the
payments or credit the amounts specified in subparagraph
(A) et oe the claimants or may make such payments or
credit such amounts to an open insured credit union to
induce the open insured credit union to accept liability for
such claims.

“(g) LIMITATION ON COURT ACTION.—Except as provided in this
section, no court may take any action, except at the request of the
Board of Directors by regulation or order, to restrain or affect the
exercise of powers or functions of the Board as a conservator or a
liquidating agent.

‘(h) LIABILITY OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS.—A director or officer of
an insured credit union may be held personally liable for monetary
damages in any civil action by, on behalf of, or at the request or
direction of the Board, which action is prosecuted wholly or partially
for the benefit of the Board—

“(1) acting as conservator or liquidating agent of such insured
credit union,

(2) acting based upon a suit, claim, or cause of action pur-
chased from, assigned by, or otherwise conveyed by such liq-
uidating agent or conservator, or

“(8) acting based upon a suit, claim, or cause of action pur-
chased from, assigned by, or otherwise conveyed in whole or in
part by an insured credit union or its affiliate in connection
with assistance provided under section 208,

for gross negligence, including any similar conduct or conduct that
demonstrates a greater disregard of a duty of care (than gross
negligence) including intentional tortious conduct, as such terms are
defined and determined under applicable State law. Nothing in this
paragraph shall impair or affect any right, if any, of the Board
es A reo een law. 3s

“(i) DamaGEs.—In any proceoting re to any claim against an
insured credit union’s director, officer, employee, agent, attorney,
accountant, appraiser, or any other party employed by or providi
services to an insured credit union, recoverable damages determin
to result from the improvident or otherwise improper use or invest-
ment of any insured credit union’s assets shall include principal
losses and appropriate interest.”; and
103 STAT. 546

12 USC 3309.

Reports.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

(5) in subsection (k) (as so redesignated by paragraph (3) of

this subsection) by striking out the lst and 5th sentences.

(b) LrmrraTIon on Court Action.—Section 206(h\(3) of the Federal

Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(h\X3)) is amended by adding at the

end thereof the following sentence: “Except as provided in this

paragraph, no court may take any action, except at the request of

the Board by regulation or order, to restrain or affect the exercise of
powers or functions of the Board as conservator.”’.

SEC, 1218. RISK MANAGEMENT TRAINING.

The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council Act (12
U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following
new section:

“SEC. 1009A. RISK MANAGEMENT TRAINING.

“(a) SeMINARS.—The Council shall develop and administer train-
ing seminars in risk management for its employees and the employ-
ees of insured financial institutions.

“(b) Srupy or Risk MANAGEMENT TRAINING ProGRAM.—Not later
than end of the l-year period beginning on the date of the enact-
ment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforce-
ment Act of 1989, the Council shall—

“(1) conduct a study on the feasibility and appropriateness of
establishing a formalized risk management training program
designed to lead to the certification of Risk Management An-
alysts; and

“(2) report to the Congress the results of such study.”.

SEC. 1219. CROSS-MARKETING RESTRICTIONS.

Section 4(f(8\B) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12
U.S.C. 1843(f(8\B)) is amended by striking clause (ii) and inserting
the following:

“(ii) offer or market products or services of an affili-
ate that are not permissible for bank holding compa-
nies to provide under subsection (cX8), or permit its
products or services to be offered or marketed in
connection with products and services of an affiliate,
unless—

“(Il) the Board, by regulation, has determined
such products and services are permissible for
bank holding companies to provide under subsec-
tion (cX8);

“(II) such products and services are described in
section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933 and the
Board, by regulation, has permitted bank holding
companies to offer or market such products or
services, but has prohibited bank holding compa-
nies and their affiliates from principally engaging
in the offering or marketing of such products or
services; or

“(ID such products or services were being so
offered or marketed as of March 5, 1987, and then
only in the same manner in which they were being
offered or marketed as of that date;”’.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 547

SEC. 1220. REPORT ON LOAN DISCRIMINATION.

(a) In GenerAL.—Not later than 60 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development,
the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the
Federal rve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
the National Credit Union Administration Board, and the Director
of the Office of Thrift Supervision, shall each transmit to the
Congress a report containing—

(1) findi based on a review of currently available loan
acceptance and rejection statistics, on the extent of discrimina-
tory lending practices by mortgage lenders subject to regulation
or supervision by such agency; an

Pedi recommendations for appropriate measures to assure non-

lending pion
(b) Scope or “Soore of HUD Report.—The Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development may exclude from the report under subsection (a) any
data pertaining to mortgage lenders which are approved mortgagees
under title II of the National Housing Act if data pe to such
lenders is or will be included in the other reports under such
su tion.

SEC, 1221. SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS. 12 USC 1811
note.

If any provision of this Act or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the Act and
the os geriog of the provision to other persons not similarly
situated or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

TITLE XIII—PARTICIPATION BY STATE
HOUSING FINANCE AUTHORITIES AND
NONPROFIT ENTITIES

SEC, 1301. DEFINITIONS, 12 USC 1441a-1.

For purposes of this title:

(1) STATE HOUSING FINANCE AUTHORITY.—The term “State
housing finance authority’”’ means any public agency, authority,
or corporation which—

(A) serves as an instrumentality of any State or any
political subdivision of any State; and

(B) functions as a source of residential mortgage loan
financing in that State.

(2) NONPROFIT ENTITY.—The term “nonprofit entity’? means
any not-for-profit corporation chartered under State law that is
— t from Federal taxation under section 501(c) of the In-

Revenue Code of 1986 and no part of the net earnings of
which inures to the benefit of any member, founder, contribu-
tor, or individual (includin m any nonprofit entity established by
the corporation established under title IX of the Housing and
Urban Development Act of 1968).

(3) MORTGAGE-RELATED ASSETS.—The term “mortgage-related
assets” means—

(A) residential mortgage loans secured by 1- to 4-family or

multifamily dwellings; and

(B) real property improved with 1- to 4-family or multi-

family ceadbentia! dwellings,
103 STAT. 548

12 USC 1441a-2.

Disadvantaged
persons.

26 USC 368.

26 USC 382.

26 USC 597.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

which are located within the jurisdiction of the applicable State
housing finance authority or within the geographical area
served by the nonprofit entity.

(4) Ner 1ncome.—The term “net income” means income after
deduction of all associated expenses calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles.

SEC. 1302. AUTHORIZATION FOR STATE HOUSING FINANCE AGENCIES AND
NONPROFIT ENTITIES TO PURCHASE MORTGAGE-RELATED
ASSETS.

(a) AUTHORIZATION.—Notwithstanding any other provision of Fed-
eral or State law, a State housing finance authority or nonprofit
entity may purchase mortgage-related assets from the Resolution
Trust Corporation or from financial institutions with respect to
which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is acting as a
conservator or receiver (including assets associated with any trust
business), and any contract for such purchase shall be effective in
accordance with its terms without any further approval, assign-
ment, or consent with respect to that contract.

(b) INVESTMENT REQUIREMENT.—Any State housing finance
authority or nonprofit entity which purchases mortgage-related
assets pursuant to subsection (a) shall invest any net income attrib-
utable to the ownership of those assets in financing, refinancing, or
rehabilitating low- and moderate-income housing within the juris-
diction of the State housing finance authority or within the geo-
graphical area served by the nonprofit entity.

TITLE XIV—TAX PROVISIONS

SEC. 1401. EARLY TERMINATION OF SPECIAL REORGANIZATION RULES
FOR FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.

(a) GENERAL RULE.—

(1) REORGANIZATIONS.—Subparagraph (D) of section 368(a)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended by section
4012 of the Technical and Miscellaneous Revenue Act of 1988) is
amended to read as follows:

“(D) AGENCY RECEIVERSHIP PROCEEDINGS WHICH INVOLVE
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.—For purposes of subparagraphs
(A) and (B), in the case of a receivership, foreclosure, or
similar proceeding before a Federal or State agency involv-
ing a financial institution referred to in section 581 or 591,
the agency shall be treated as a court.”

(2) NET OPERATING LOSS RULES.—The last sentence of section
382(1)(5)\F) of such Code (as so amended) is amended by striking
ee December 31, 1989” and inserting “on or after May 10,

(3) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.—

(A) Section 597 of such Code (as so amended) is amended
to read as follows:

“SEC. 597. TREATMENT OF TRANSACTIONS IN WHICH FEDERAL FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE PROVIDED.

“(a) GeNERAL Rute.—The treatment for purposes of this chapter
of any transaction in which Federal financial assistance is provided
with respect to a bank or domestic building and loan association
shall be determined under regulations prescribed by the Secretary.
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 549

“(b) Principtes Usep IN PRESCRIBING REGULATIONS.—

“(1) TREATMENT OF TAXABLE ASSET ACQUISITIONS.—In the case
of any acquisition of assets to which section 381(a) does not
apply, the regulations prescribed under subsection (a) shall—

“(A) provide that Federal financial assistance shall be
properly taken into account by the institution from which
the assets were acquired, and

“(B) provide ihe pooner method of allocating basis aranng
the assets so acq (including rights to receive Feder
financial assistance).

“(2) OTHER TRANSACTIONS.—In the case of any transaction not
described in ph (1), the regulations prescribed under
subsection (a) shall provide for the proper treatment of Federal
financial assistance and appropriate adjustments to basis or
other tax attributes to reflect such treatment.

“(3) DENIAL OF DOUBLE BENEFIT.—No tions prescribed
under this section shall permit the utilization of any deduction
(or other tax benefit) if such amount was in effect reimbursed by
nontaxable Federal financial assistance.

“(c) FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.—The purposes of this sec-
tion, the term ‘Federal financial assistance’ means—

“(1) any money or other property provided with a gee toa
domestic building and loan association by the Federal Savings
and Loan Insurance Corporation or the lution Trust Cor-
poration pursuant to section 406(f) of the National Housing Act
or section 21A of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (or under
any other similar provision of law), and

‘(2) any money or other property provided with respect to a
bank or domestic building and loan association by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation pursuant to section 11(f) or 13(c)
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (or under any other
similar provision of law),

regardless of whether any note or other instrument is issued in
exc e therefor.

‘“(d) Domestic BurLpING AND Loan AssociaTION.—For purposes of
this section, the term ‘domestic building and loan association’ has
the meaning given such term by section 7701(aX19) without regard
to subparagraph (C) thereof.”

(B) Subparagraph (B) of section 904(c\2) of the Tax
Reform Act of 1986 is hereby repealed.

(C) The table of sections for part II of subchapter H of
chapter 1 of such Code is amended by striking the item
relating to section 597 and inserting the following:

“Sec. 597. — of transactions in which Federal financial assistance provid-

(b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—

(1) Section 904 of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (other than
subsection (c2)(B) thereof) is hereby repealed and the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 shall be applied as if the amendments
made by such section had not been enacted.

(2) The last sentence of paragraph (3) of section 4012(c) of the
Technical and Miscellaneous Revenue Act of 1988 is amended to
read as follows:

“In the case of any bank or any institution treated as a domestic
building and loan association for purposes of section 597 of the
1986 Code by reason of the amendment made by subsection
(bX2)(B), the amendments made by this subsection shall also

om 1n4ry OF Dans 1 1a.-or @

26 USC 597 note.

26 USC 597 note.

26 USC 597 note.
103 STAT. 550

26 USC 593.

26 USC 368 note.
26 USC 382 note.

26 USC 597 note.

26 USC 597 note.

26 USC 597 note.

26 USC 593 note.

26 USC 597 note.

PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

apply to any transfer before January 1, 1989, to which the
amendments made by subsection (b\(2) apply.”

(3) The last sentence of section 593(eX1) of such Code is
amended to read as follows: “This paragraph shall not apply to
any transaction to which section 381 applies, or to any distribu-
tion to the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (or
any successor thereof) or the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration in redemption of an interest in an association, if such
interest was originally received by any such entity in exchange
for assistance provided under a provision of law referred to in
section 597(c).”.

(c) ErFective Dates.—

(1) SussecTion (a)(1).—The amendment made by subsection
(aX1) shall apply to acquisitions on or after May 10, 1989.
(2) SuBsEcTION (a\(2).—The amendment made by subsection
(aX2) shall apply to transactions on or after May 10, 1989.

(3) SUBSECTION (aX3).—

(A) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made by subsection
(aX3) shall apply to any amount received or accrued by the
financial institution on or after May 10, 1989, except that
such amendments shall not apply to transfers on or after
such date pursuant to an acquisition to which the amend-
ment made by subsection (a1) does not apply.

(B) INTERIM RULE.—In the case of any payment pursuant
to a transaction on or after May 10, 1989, and before the
date on which the Secretary of the Treasury (or his dele-
gate) takes action in exercise of his regulatory authority
under section 597 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as
amended by subsection (aX3)), the taxpayer may rely on the
legislative histo ry for the amendments made by su ion
(aX8) in determining the proper treatment of such payment.

(4) Sussection (bX1).—The provisions of subsection (b\(1) shall
eer! sect on the date of the enactment of the Tax Reform Act
re) .

(5) SussectTion (b)(2).—The amendment made by subsection
(b\(2) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of the
Technical and Miscellaneous Revenue Act of 1988.

(6) Sussection (b\(3).—The amendment made by subsection
(bX8) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.

(7) CLARIFICATION OF PRIOR LAW.—Any reference to the Fed-
eral Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation in section 597 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as in effect on the day before
the date of the enactment of this Act) shall be treated as
including a reference to the Resolution Trust Corporation and
the FSLIC Resolution Fund.

SEC. 1402. TAX EXEMPTION FOR RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION AND

RESOLUTION FUNDING CORPORATION.

(a) GENERAL RutE.—Subsection (1) of section 501 of the Internal

Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to government corporations exempt
26 USC 501. under subsection (c)(1)) is amended to read as follows:

“(1) GOVERNMENT CORPORATIONS ExEemMpT UNDER SUBSECTION

(cX1).—For purposes of subsection (c)(1), the following organizations
are described in this subsection:

“(1) The Central Liquidity Facility established under title III
of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1795 et seq.).
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 551

“(2) The Resolution Trust Corporation established under sec-
tion 21A of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act.
“(3) The Resolution Funding Corporation established under
section 21B of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act.”
(b) Errecttve Date.—The amendment made by subsection (a)
shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 1403. ANNUAL REPORTS ON TRANSACTIONS IN WHICH FEDERAL
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROVIDED.

(a) In GeNERAL.—The Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate
shall submit to the Senate and to the Committee on Ways and
Means of the House of Representatives annual reports on—

(1A) the transactions which occur during the year for which
the report is made and with respect to which Federal financial
assistance is provided;

(B) the aggregate amount of Federal financial assistance pro-
vided with to such transactions; an

oy any tax benefits available by reason of such transactions;
an

(2) the aggregate amount of Federal financial assistance pro-
vided during such year, and the te tax benefits utilized
during such year, which are attributable to such transactions in
prior years.

(b) DerrnirIon. —For purposes of this section, the term “Federal
financial assistance” means any assistance to which section 597 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 applies.

SEC. 1404. STUDIES OF RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN PUBLIC DEBT AND
ACTIVITIES OF GOVERNMENT-SPONSORED ENTERPRISES.

(a) In GENERAL.—In order to better the bonded indebted-
ness of the United States, the Secretary conduct 2 annual
studies to assess the financial safety and soundness of the activities
of all cin tr iiebeal baroete enterprises and the impact of their
operations on Fede

(b) Access To ecavaaer Devoe! INFORMATION.—

(1) INFORMATION FROM GSE’ . —Each Governmen nsored
enterprise shall ohvbier d full and prompt access to the tary
to its books and records, and s promptly provide any other
information requested by the Secretary

(2) INFORMATION FROM SUPERVISORY AGENCIES.—In conducting
the studies under this section, the Secretary may request
information from, or the assistance of, any Federal department
or agency authorized by law to supervise the activities of any
Government-sponsored enterprise.

(3) CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall determine and
maintain the confidentiality of any book, record, or
information _— available under subsection in a
manner — y consistent with the level of confidential-
ity established for the material by the Government-spon-
sored enterprise involved.

(B) EXEMPTION FROM PUBLIC DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.—
The De ent of the Treasury shall ay exempt from
section 552 of title 5, United States Code, with res to
any book, record, or information made available under this
subsection and determined by the Secretary to be confiden-
tial under subparagraph (A).

26 USC 501 note.

26 USC 597 note.

12 USC 1811

* note,

Records.
103 STAT. 552 PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989

Reports.

(C) PENALTY FOR UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE.—Any officer
or employee of the Department of the Treasury shall be
subject to the penalties set forth in section 1906 of title 18,
United States Code, if—

ae by virtue of his employment or official position, he
ion of or access to any book, record, or
uiontion made available under this subsection and
determined by the Secretary to be confidential under
subparagraph (A); and
we he discloses the material in any manner other
than—
(I) to an officer or employee of the Department of
the Treasury; or
(II) pursuant to the exceptions set forth in such
section 1906.

(c) ASSESSMENT OF Risk.—In assessing the financial safety and
soundness of the activities of Government-sponsored enterprises,
and the impact of their activities on Federal borrowing, the Sec-
retary shall quantify the risks associated with each Government-
sponsored enterprise. In quantifying such risks, the Secretary shall
determine the volume and type of securities outstanding which are
issued or guaranteed by each Government-sponsored enterprise, the
capitalization of each Government-sponsored enterprise, and the
degree of risk involved in the operations of each Government-
sponsored enterprise due to factors such as credit risk, interest rate
risk, management and operations risk, and business risk. The Sec-
retary shall also report on the quality and timeliness of information
currently available to the public and the Federal Government
concerning the extent and nature of the activities of Government-
sponsored enterprises and the financial risk associated with such
activities.

(d) Reports to ConGress.—The Secretary shall submit to the
Congress—

(1) by May 15, 1990, a report setting forth the results of the 1st
annual study conducted under this section; and

(2) by May 15, 1991, a report setting forth the results of the
‘2nd annual study conducted under this section.

(e) DeFInITIONS.—For purposes of this section:

(1) GOVERNMENT-SPONSORED ENTERPRISE.—The term ‘“‘Govern-
ment-sponsored enterprise” means—

(A) the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Fed-
eral Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, the Federal Home
Loan Bank System, the Farm Credit Banks, the Banks for
Cooperatives, the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corpora-
tion, the Student Loan Marketing Association, the College
PUBLIC LAW 101-73—AUG. 9, 1989 103 STAT. 553

Construction Loan Insurance Association, and any of their
affiliated or member institutions; and
(B) any other Government-sponsored enterprise, as des-
ignated by the Secretary.
(2) Secretary.—The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of
the Treasury or his delegate.

Approved August 9, 1989.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY—H.R. 1278 (S. 774):

Ne eT er ee ee ing, Finance and Urban
Affairs), Pt. 2 (Comm. on Ways and ), Pt. 3 (Comm. on

Finan ‘
Pt § Geman on ine duis, Px & Gomes on Covmemaeet
and Urban

a. and Pt. 7 (Comm. on , Finance
); and Nos. 101-209 and 101-222 from (Comm. of
SENATE REPORTS: No. 101 Scania ying S. 774 (Comm. on Banking, Housing,
0. Sa e on ’ ’
and Urban Affairs).

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 135 pod is
Apr. 17-19, 8. 714 considered and passed Senate.
June 14, 15, oo Se nee See eee
prey considered and passed Senate, amended. :
- 8, House agreed to conference report. Senate ruled conference report out

Aug He House and Senate to conference report.
WEEKL IMPILATION OF DOCUMENTS, Vol. 25 (1989):
Aug. 9, Presidential remarks.

